
DEF 14A
1
a2175728zdef14a.htm
DEF 14A


UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549  
 SCHEDULE 14A
Proxy
Statement Pursuant to Section 14(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Amendment No.            ) 



Filed by the Registrant ý


Filed by a Party other than the Registrant o



Check the appropriate box:



o
 

Preliminary Proxy Statement



o
 
Confidential, for Use of the Commission Only (as permitted by Rule 14a-6(e)(2))



ý
 

Definitive Proxy Statement



o
 

Definitive Additional Materials



o
 

Soliciting Material Pursuant to §240.14a-12






Abbott Laboratories


 (Name of Registrant as Specified In Its Charter)


 


 (Name of Person(s) Filing Proxy Statement, if other than the Registrant)


 
 
 
 
 


Payment of Filing Fee (Check the appropriate box):



ý
 

No fee required.



o
 

Fee computed on table below per Exchange Act Rules 14a-6(i)(1) and 0-11.


 
 
(1)
 
Title of each class of securities to which transaction applies:
        


 
 
(2)
 
Aggregate number of securities to which transaction applies:
        


 
 
(3)
 
Per unit price or other underlying value of transaction computed pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0-11 (set forth the amount on which the filing fee is calculated and state how it was determined):
        


 
 
(4)
 
Proposed maximum aggregate value of transaction:
        


 
 
(5)
 
Total fee paid:
        



o
 

Fee paid previously with preliminary materials.



o
 

Check box if any part of the fee is offset as provided by Exchange Act Rule 0-11(a)(2) and identify the filing for which the offsetting fee was paid previously. Identify the previous filing by registration statement number, or the Form or
Schedule and the date of its filing.



 
 

(1)
 

Amount Previously Paid:
        


 
 
(2)
 
Form, Schedule or Registration Statement No.:
        


 
 
(3)
 
Filing Party:
        


 
 
(4)
 
Date Filed:
        










Abbott Laboratories
100 Abbott Park Road
Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6400 U.S.A.



Cover:


Antonio Brea Cárdenas • Spain • Xience V


    After Antonio Brea Cárdenas suffered a heart attack, his doctors used Xience V, Abbott's next-generation drug-eluting stent, to treat
his arterial blockage. Xience V was launched in Europe and Asia in 2006.







Your Vote Is Important  
Please sign and promptly return your proxy in the enclosed envelope or vote your shares by telephone or using
the Internet.  
Notice of Annual Meeting
of Shareholders
The Annual Meeting of the Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories will be held at Abbott's headquarters, 100 Abbott Park Road, at the intersection of
Route 137 and Waukegan Road, Lake County, Illinois, on Friday, April 27, 2007, at 9:00 a.m. for the following purposes: 

•To
elect 13 directors to hold office until the next Annual Meeting or until their successors are elected (Item 1 on the proxy card),
•To
ratify the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of Abbott for 2007 (Item 2 on the proxy card), and
•To
transact such other business as may properly come before the meeting, including consideration of two shareholder proposals, if presented at the meeting (Items 3
and 4 on the proxy card). 
The board of directors recommends that you vote FOR Items 1 and 2 on the proxy card.  
The board of directors recommends that you vote AGAINST Items 3 and 4 on the proxy card.  
The close of business February 28, 2007 has been fixed as the record date for determining the shareholders entitled to receive notice of and to vote at the Annual
Meeting. 

Admission
to the meeting will be by admission card only. If you plan to attend, please complete and return the reservation form on the back cover, and an admission card will be sent to you. Due to
space limitations, reservation forms must be received before April 20, 2007. Each admission card, along with photo identification, admits one person. A shareholder may request two admission
cards. 

By
order of the board of directors. 
LAURA J.
SCHUMACHER Secretary  
March 19, 2007 




  

Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement  
Solicitation of Proxies  

The accompanying proxy is solicited on behalf of the board of directors for use at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The meeting will be held on April 27, 2007, at Abbott's headquarters,
100 Abbott Park Road, at the intersection of Route 137 and Waukegan Road, Lake County, Illinois. This proxy statement and the accompanying proxy card are being mailed to shareholders on
or about March 19, 2007. 

Information about the Annual Meeting  
Who Can Vote  

Shareholders of record at the close of business on February 28, 2007 will be entitled to notice of and to vote at the Annual Meeting. As of January 31, 2007, Abbott had 1,543,073,501
outstanding common shares, which are Abbott's only outstanding voting securities. All shareholders have cumulative voting rights in the election of directors and one vote per share on all other
matters. 
Cumulative Voting  

Cumulative voting allows a shareholder to multiply the number of shares owned by the number of directors to be elected and to cast the total for one nominee or distribute the votes among the nominees,
as the shareholder desires. Nominees who receive the greatest number of votes will be elected. If you wish to cumulate your votes, you must sign and mail in your proxy card or attend the Annual
Meeting. 
Voting by Proxy  

All of Abbott's shareholders may vote by mail or at the Annual Meeting. The bylaws provide that a shareholder may authorize no more than two persons as proxies to attend and vote at the meeting. Most
of Abbott's shareholders may also vote their shares by telephone or the Internet. If you vote by telephone or the Internet, you do not need to return your proxy card. The instructions for voting by
telephone or the Internet can be found with your proxy card. 
Revoking a Proxy  

You may revoke your proxy by voting in person at the Annual Meeting or, at any time prior to the meeting: 

•by
delivering a written notice to the secretary of Abbott,
•by
delivering an authorized proxy with a later date, or
•by
voting by telephone or the Internet after you have given your proxy. 

1

 
Discretionary Voting Authority  

Unless authority is withheld in accordance with the instructions on the proxy, the persons named in the proxy will vote the shares covered by proxies they receive to elect the 13 nominees named
in Item 1 on the proxy card. Should a nominee become unavailable to serve, the shares will be voted for a substitute designated by the board of directors, or for fewer than 13 nominees
if, in the judgment of the proxy holders, such action is necessary or desirable. The persons named in the proxy may also decide to vote shares cumulatively so that one or more of the nominees may
receive fewer votes than the other nominees (or no votes at all), although they have no present intention of doing so. 
Where
a shareholder has specified a choice for or against the ratification of the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors, or the approval of a shareholder proposal, or where
the shareholder has abstained on these matters, the shares represented by the proxy will be voted (or not voted) as specified. Where no choice has been specified, the proxy will be voted FOR
ratification of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors and AGAINST the shareholder proposals. 
With
the exception of matters omitted from this proxy statement pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the board of directors is not aware of any other issue which may
properly be brought before the meeting. If other matters are properly brought before the meeting, the accompanying proxy will be voted in accordance with the judgment of the proxy holders. 
Quorum and Vote Required to Approve Each Item on the Proxy  

A majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote on a matter, represented in person or by proxy, constitutes a quorum for consideration of that matter at the meeting. The affirmative vote of a
majority of the shares represented at the meeting and entitled to vote on a matter shall be the act of the shareholders with respect to that matter. 
Effect of Broker Non-Votes and Abstentions  

A proxy submitted by an institution such as a broker or bank that holds shares for the account of a beneficial owner may indicate that all or a portion of the shares represented by that proxy are not
being voted with respect to a particular matter. This could occur, for example, when the broker or bank is not permitted to vote those shares in the absence of instructions from the beneficial owner
of the stock. These "non-voted shares" will be considered shares not present and, therefore, not entitled to vote on that matter, although these shares may be considered present and
entitled to vote for other purposes. Non-voted shares will not affect the determination of the outcome of the vote on any matter to be decided at the meeting. Shares represented by proxies
which are present and entitled to vote on a matter but which have elected to abstain from voting on that matter will have the effect of votes against that matter. 
Inspectors of Election  

The inspectors of election and the tabulators of all proxies, ballots, and voting tabulations that identify shareholders are independent and are not Abbott employees. 
Cost of Soliciting Proxies  

Abbott will bear the cost of making solicitations from its shareholders and will reimburse banks and brokerage firms for out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with this
solicitation. Proxies may be solicited by mail or in person by directors, officers, or employees of Abbott and its subsidiaries. 
Abbott
has retained Georgeson Inc. to aid in the solicitation of proxies, at an estimated cost of $17,500 plus reimbursement for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses. 
Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan  

Participants in the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan will receive a voting instruction card for their shares held in the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Trust. The Stock Retirement Trust
is administered by both a trustee and an investment committee. The trustee of the Trust is Putnam Fiduciary Trust Company. The members of the investment committee are Robert E. Funck,
Stephen R. Fussell, and William H. Preece, Jr., employees of Abbott. The voting power with respect to the shares is held by and shared between the investment committee and the
participants. The investment committee must solicit voting instructions from the participants and follow the voting instructions it receives. The investment committee may use its own discretion with
respect to those shares for which no voting instructions are received. 
Confidential Voting  

It is Abbott's policy that all proxies, ballots, and voting tabulations that reveal how a particular shareholder has voted be kept confidential and not be disclosed, except: 

•where
disclosure may be required by law or regulation,
•where
disclosure may be necessary in order for Abbott to assert or defend claims,
•where
a shareholder provides comments with a proxy,
•where
a shareholder expressly requests disclosure,
•to
allow the inspectors of election to certify the results of a vote, or
•in
other limited circumstances, such as a contested election or proxy solicitation not approved and recommended by the board of directors. 

2

 

Information Concerning Security Ownership  

Based on information contained in a Schedule 13G filed by Capital Research and Management Company, 333 S. Hope Street, Los Angeles, California 90071 with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on February 12, 2007, as of December 29, 2006, Capital Research and Management Company was the beneficial owner of 97,467,700 Abbott common shares (approximately 6.3%
of the outstanding common shares). 

Information Concerning Nominees for Directors (Item 1 on Proxy Card)  

Thirteen directors are to be elected to hold office until the next Annual Meeting or until their successors are elected. All of the nominees, except Messrs. Scott and Tilton, are currently
serving as directors. Messrs. Scott and Tilton were recommended for election by the nominations and governance committee. 

3



  

Nominees for Election as Directors  









 
Roxanne S.
Austin                                        
  Age 46                        Director since 2000
 Former President and Chief Operating Officer, DIRECTV, Inc., El Segundo, California
(Digital Satellite Television Service Provider)
 Mrs. Austin served as president and chief operating officer of DIRECTV, Inc. from June 2001 to December 2003. She also served as executive vice president of Hughes Electronics Corporation and as a
member of its executive committee until December 2003. From 1997 to June 2001, Mrs. Austin was the corporate senior vice president and chief financial officer of Hughes Electronics Corporation. Mrs. Austin served as Hughes
Electronics' vice president, treasurer, chief accounting officer and controller from December 1996 to July 1997; as its vice president, treasurer, and controller from July 1996 to December 1996; and as its vice president and
controller from July 1993 to July 1996. Prior to joining Hughes, Mrs. Austin was a partner at the accounting firm Deloitte & Touche. Mrs. Austin earned her B.B.A. degree in accounting from the University of Texas at San
Antonio. She serves on the board of trustees of the California Science Center. Mrs. Austin serves on the board of directors of Target Corporation and Teledyne Technologies Inc.









 
William M.
Daley                                         
    Age 58                        Director since 2004
 Chairman of the Midwest, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Chicago, Illinois
(Banking and Financial Services Company)
 Mr. Daley has served as the senior executive of the Midwest region and serves on the JPMorgan Chase & Co. Executive Committee and on its International Council since May 2004. He served as
President, SBC Communications, Inc. (diversified telecommunications) from December 2001 to May 2004. Mr. Daley was vice chairman of Evercore Capital Partners L.P. from January to November 2001. From June to
December 2000, Mr. Daley served as chairman of Vice President Albert Gore's 2000 presidential election campaign. Mr. Daley served as the U.S. Secretary of Commerce from January 1997 to June 2000. Mr. Daley serves on the
board of directors of Boston Properties, Inc., The Boeing Company, The Art Institute of Chicago, Joffrey Ballet of Chicago, Loyola University of Chicago, Northwestern Memorial Hospital, and Northwestern University. He also sits on the Council on
Foreign Relations. Mr. Daley is a graduate of Loyola University in Chicago and of John Marshall Law School.









 
W. James
Farrell                                        
     Age 64                        Director since 2006
 Former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Illinois Tool Works Inc., Glenview, Illinois
(Worldwide Manufacturer of Highly Engineered Products and Specialty Systems)
 Mr. Farrell served as the chairman of Illinois Tool Works Inc. from 1996 to 2006 and as its chief executive officer from 1995 to 2005. He serves on the board of directors of Allstate Insurance Company, UAL
Corporation, and 3M.




4

 










 
H. Laurance
Fuller                                        
  Age 68                        Director since 1988
 Retired Co-Chairman of the Board, BP Amoco, p.l.c., London, United Kingdom
(Integrated Petroleum and Chemicals Company)
 Mr. Fuller was elected president of Amoco Corporation in 1983 and chairman and chief executive officer in 1991. As the result of the merger of British Petroleum, p.l.c. and Amoco effective December 31,
1998, he became co-chairman of BP Amoco, p.l.c. He retired from that position in April 2000. He is a director of Cabot MicroElectronics Corporation, Motorola, Inc., Verde Group and The Nature Conservancy of South Carolina, and a
life trustee of The Orchestral Association and presidential counselor of Cornell University.









 
Richard A.
Gonzalez                                       Age 
53                        Director since 2001
 President and Chief Operating Officer, Abbott Laboratories
 Mr. Gonzalez was elected Abbott's president and chief operating officer in 2006. He previously served as Abbott's president and chief operating officer, medical products group from 2001 to 2006, as executive vice
president, medical products from 2000 to 2001, as senior vice president, hospital products from 1998 to 2000, and as vice president, Abbott HealthSystems division from 1995 to 1998. Mr. Gonzalez joined Abbott in 1977. He received his bachelor's
degree in biochemistry from the University of Houston and his master's degree in biochemistry from the University of Miami.









 
The Rt. Hon. Lord Owen
CH                           Age 68            
            Director since 1996
 Chairman of Europe Steel, p.l.c., London, United Kingdom (International Trader in Steel Products)
 David Owen is a British subject. He was a neurologist and Research Fellow on the Medical Unit of St. Thomas' Hospital, London, from 1965 through 1968 and a member of Parliament for Plymouth in the House of Commons
from 1966 until he retired in May of 1992. In 1992, he was created a Life Peer and a Member of the House of Lords. In August of 1992, the European Union appointed him Co-Chairman of the International Conference on Former Yugoslavia. He stepped down
in June of 1995. He was chairman of Global Natural Energy p.l.c. (an owner and operator of gasoline retailing sites) from 1995 to 2006. Lord Owen was Secretary for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs from 1977 to 1979 and Minister of Health from 1974 to
1976.




5

 










 
Boone
Powell Jr.                                       
      Age 70                        Director since 1985
 Retired Chairman, Baylor Health Care System, Dallas, Texas
 Mr. Powell had been associated with Baylor University Medical Center since 1980 when he was named president and chief executive officer. In August 2001, Mr. Powell retired from his position as Chairman
of Baylor Health Care System. Prior to joining Baylor, he was president of Hendrick Medical Center in Abilene, Texas. He is a director of Comerica Bank-Texas, U.S. Oncology, and United Surgical Partners International and a fellow of the American
College of Health Care Executives. Mr. Powell is a graduate of Baylor University. He received a master's degree in hospital administration from the University of California.









 
W. Ann Reynolds,
Ph.D.                                  Age 69     
                   Director since 1980
 Former President, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama
 Dr. Reynolds served as the president of The University of Alabama at Birmingham from 1997 to 2002 and as director of its Center for Community Outreach and Development from 2002 to 2003. From 1990 to 1997,
Dr. Reynolds served as chancellor of The City University of New York. Prior to that, she served as chancellor of The California State University system, provost of The Ohio State University and associate vice chancellor for research and dean of
the graduate college of the University of Illinois Medical Center, Chicago. She also held appointments as professor of anatomy, research professor of obstetrics and gynecology, and acting associate dean for academic affairs at the University of
Illinois College of Medicine. Dr. Reynolds is a graduate of Emporia State University (Kansas) and holds M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in zoology from the University of Iowa. She is also a director of Humana Inc., Owens-Corning, Invitrogen, and the
News Gazette, Champaign, Illinois.









 
Roy S.
Roberts                                        
        Age 67                        Director since 1998
 Managing Director, Reliant Equity Investors, Chicago, Illinois
(Venture Capital Firm)
 Mr. Roberts has served as managing director of Reliant Equity Investors since September 2000. Mr. Roberts retired from General Motors in April 2000. At the time of his retirement, he was group vice
president for North American Vehicle Sales, Service and Marketing of General Motors Corporation, having been elected to that position in October 1998. Prior to that time, he was vice president and general manager in charge of Field Sales,
Service and Parts for the Vehicle Sales, Service and Marketing Group from August 1998 to October 1998, general manager of the Pontiac-GMC Division from February 1996 to October 1998, and general manager of the GMC Truck Division
from October 1992 to February 1996. Mr. Roberts first joined General Motors Corporation in 1977 and became a corporate officer of General Motors Corporation in April 1987. Mr. Roberts earned a bachelor's degree from Western
Michigan University. He serves as a director of Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation and of Thermon Mfg. Co.; as Trustee Emeritus at Western Michigan University; and as past president and on the National Board of Directors for the Boy Scouts
of America.




6

 










 
Samuel C. Scott
III                                         
 Age 62                            Director Nominee  
 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Corn Products International, Inc. Westchester, Illinois
(A Corn Refining Company)
 Mr. Scott has served as chairman, president and chief executive officer of Corn Products International, since 1997. He was president of the Corn Refining Division of CPC International from 1995 through 1997, when
CPC International spun off Corn Products International as a separate corporation. Mr. Scott serves on the board of directors of Bank of New York, Motorola, Inc., Inroads/Chicago, Accion USA and the Chicago Council on Foreign Relations. He also
serves as a trustee of The Conference Board. Mr. Scott graduated from Fairleigh Dickinson University.









 
William D.
Smithburg                                      Age 68
                        Director since 1982
 Retired Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, The Quaker Oats Company, Chicago, Illinois (Worldwide Food Manufacturer and Marketer of Beverages and Grain-Based Products)
 Mr. Smithburg retired from Quaker Oats in October 1997. Mr. Smithburg joined Quaker Oats in 1966 and became president and chief executive officer in 1981, and chairman and chief executive officer in 1983
and also served as president from November 1990 to January 1993 and again from November 1995. Mr. Smithburg was elected to the Quaker board in 1978 and served on its executive committee until he retired. He is a director of
Smurfit-Stone Container Corporation, Northern Trust Corporation, and Corning Incorporated. He is a member of the board of trustees of Northwestern University. Mr. Smithburg earned a B.S. degree from DePaul University and an M.B.A. degree from
Northwestern University.









 
Glenn F.
Tilton                                        
         Age 58                            Director
Nominee  
 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of UAL Corporation Elk Grove Township, Illinois (holding company) and United Air Lines, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of UAL Corporation (air
transportation)
 Mr. Tilton has been chairman, president and chief executive officer of UAL Corporation (UAL Corporation filed a voluntary bankruptcy petition under the federal bankruptcy laws in December 2002 and exited
bankruptcy in February 2007) and United Air Lines, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of UAL Corporation since September 2002. From October 2001 to August 2002, he served as vice chairman of ChevronTexaco Corporation (global energy).
In addition, from May 2002 to September 2002 he served as non-executive chairman of Dynegy, Inc. (energy). From February to October 2001 he served as chairman and chief executive officer of Texaco Inc. (global energy). He previously served
as president of Texaco's Global Business Unit. He serves as a director of Lincoln National Corporation and TXU Corporation.









 
Miles D.
White                                         
       Age 51                        Director since 1998
 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Abbott Laboratories
 Mr. White has served as Abbott's chairman of the board and chief executive officer since 1999. He served as an executive vice president of Abbott from 1998 to 1999, as senior vice president, diagnostics operations
from 1994 to 1998, and as vice president, diagnostics systems operations from 1993 to 1994. Mr. White joined Abbott in 1984. He received both his bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering and M.B.A. degree from Stanford University. He serves
on the board of trustees of The Culver Educational Foundation, The Field Museum in Chicago, and Northwestern University and is chairman of the board of directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. He serves as a director of Motorola Inc.
and the Tribune Company.




7



  

The Board of Directors and its Committees  
The Board of Directors  

The board of directors held 13 meetings in 2006. The average attendance of all directors at board and committee meetings in 2006 was 99 percent. Abbott encourages its board members to
attend the annual shareholders meeting. Last year, all of Abbott's directors attended the annual shareholders meeting. 
The
board has determined that each of the following directors and director nominees is independent in accordance with the New York Stock Exchange listing standards: R. S. Austin, W. M.
Daley, W. J. Farrell, H. L. Fuller, J. M. Greenberg, D. A. L. Owen, B. Powell Jr., W. A. Reynolds, R. S. Roberts,
S. C. Scott III, W. D. Smithburg, and G. F. Tilton. In addition, the board also determined that J. R. Walter, who served on the board during the
year, was independent under those standards. To determine independence, the board applied the categorical standards attached as Exhibit A to this proxy statement. The board also considered
whether a director has any other material relationships with Abbott or its subsidiaries and concluded that none of these directors had a relationship that impaired the director's independence. This
included consideration of the fact that some of the directors serve on boards of companies or entities to which Abbott sold products or made contributions or from which Abbott purchased products and
services during the year. In making its determination, the board relied on both information provided by the directors and information developed internally by Abbott. 
The
chairman of the nominations and governance committee acts as lead director to facilitate communication with the board and presides over regularly conducted executive sessions of the independent
directors or sessions where the chairman of the board is not present. It is
the role of the lead director to review and approve matters, such as agenda items, schedule sufficiency, and, where appropriate, information provided to other board members. The lead director is
chosen by and from the independent members of the board of directors, and serves as the liaison between the chairman and the independent directors; however, all directors are encouraged to, and in
fact do, consult with the chairman on each of the above topics as well. The lead director, and each of the other directors, communicates regularly with the chairman and chief executive officer
regarding appropriate agenda topics and other board related matters. 

Committees of the Board of Directors  

The board of directors has five committees established in Abbott's bylaws: the executive committee, audit committee, compensation committee, nominations and governance committee, and public policy
committee. Each of the members of the audit committee, compensation committee, nominations and governance committee, and public policy committee is independent. 
The
executive committee, whose members are M. D. White, chairman, H. L. Fuller, J. M. Greenberg, W. A. Reynolds, and W. D. Smithburg, held three meetings in 2006.
This committee may exercise all the authority of the board in the management of Abbott, except for matters expressly reserved by law for board action. 
The
audit committee, whose members are J. M. Greenberg, chairman, R. S. Austin, D. A. L. Owen, and W. D. Smithburg, held seven meetings in 2006. The committee is
governed by a written charter. This committee assists the board of directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibility with respect to Abbott's accounting and financial reporting practices and the
audit process, the quality and integrity of Abbott's financial statements, the independent auditors' qualifications, independence and performance, the performance of Abbott's internal audit function
and internal auditors, and certain areas of legal and regulatory compliance. Each of the members of the audit committee is financially literate, as required of audit committee members by the New York
Stock Exchange. The board of directors has determined that both J. M. Greenberg, the committee's chairman, and R. S. Austin are "audit committee financial experts." A copy of the report
of the audit committee is on page 35. 
The
compensation committee, whose members are W. D. Smithburg, chairman, W. M. Daley, W. J. Farrell, H. L. Fuller, and B. Powell Jr., held three meetings in
2006. The committee is governed by a written charter. This committee assists the board of directors in carrying out the board's responsibilities relating to the compensation of Abbott's executive
officers and directors. The compensation committee annually reviews the compensation paid to the members of the board and gives its recommendations to the full board regarding both the amount of
director compensation that should be paid and the allocation of that compensation between equity-based awards and cash. In recommending director compensation, the compensation committee takes
comparable director fees into account and reviews any arrangement that could be viewed as indirect director compensation. The processes and procedures used for the consideration and determination of
executive compensation are described in the section of the proxy captioned, "Compensation Discussion and Analysis." This committee also reviews, approves, and administers the incentive compensation
plans in which any executive officer of Abbott participates and all of Abbott's equity-based plans. It may delegate the responsibility to administer and make grants under these plans to management,
except to the extent that such delegation would be inconsistent with applicable law or regulation or with the listing rules of the New York Stock Exchange. The compensation committee has engaged
Hewitt Associates LLC, as its independent compensation consultant to provide counsel and advice on executive and non-employee director compensation matters and has instructed Hewitt to provide
information and advice regarding the peer groups against which performance and pay should be examined, the financial metrics to be used to assess Abbott's relative performance, the competitive 

8

 


long-term incentive practices in the market place, and compensation levels relative to market practice. A copy of the report of the compensation committee is on page 16. 
The
nominations and governance committee, whose members are H. L. Fuller, chairman, W. J. Farrell, D. A. L. Owen, W. A. Reynolds, and R. S. Roberts, held six
meetings in 2006. The committee is governed by a written charter. This committee assists the board of directors in identifying individuals qualified to become board members and recommends to the board
the nominees for election as directors at the next annual meeting of shareholders, recommends to the board the persons to be elected as executive officers of Abbott, develops and recommends to the
board the corporate governance guidelines applicable to Abbott, and serves in an advisory capacity to the board and the chairman of the board on matters of organization, management succession plans,
major changes in the organizational structure of Abbott, and the conduct of board activities. The process used by this committee to identify a nominee to serve as a member of the board of directors
depends on the qualities being sought. Board members should have backgrounds that when combined provide a portfolio of experience and knowledge that will serve Abbott's governance and strategic needs.
A search firm assists the committee in identifying and evaluating potential board candidates. Board candidates will be considered on the basis of a range of criteria, including broad-based business
knowledge and relationships, prominence and excellent reputations in their primary fields of endeavor, as well as a global business perspective and commitment to good corporate citizenship. Directors
should have demonstrated experience and ability that is relevant to the board of directors' oversight role with respect to Abbott's business and affairs. 
The
public policy committee, whose members are W. A. Reynolds, chair, R. S. Austin, W. M. Daley, B. Powell Jr., and R. S. Roberts held one meeting in 2006.
The committee is governed by a written charter. This committee assists the board of directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibility with respect to Abbott's public policy, certain areas of legal
and regulatory compliance, and governmental affairs and healthcare compliance issues that affect Abbott by discharging the responsibilities set forth in its charter. 

Communicating with the Board of Directors  

You may communicate with the board of directors by writing a letter to the chairman of the board, to the chairman of the nominations and governance committee, who acts as the lead director at the
meetings of the independent directors, or to the independent directors c/o Abbott Laboratories, 100 Abbott Park Road, D-364, AP6D, Abbott Park, Illinois
60064-6400 Attention: corporate secretary. The general counsel and corporate secretary regularly forwards to the addressee all letters other than mass mailings, advertisements, and other
materials not relevant to Abbott's business. In addition, directors regularly receive a log of all correspondence received by the company that is addressed to a member of the board and may request any
correspondence that is addressed to them. 

Corporate Governance Materials  

Abbott's corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, director independence standards, code of business conduct and the charters of Abbott's audit committee, compensation
committee, nominations and governance committee, and public policy committee are all available in the corporate governance section of Abbott's investor relations Web Site (www.abbottinvestor.com) or
by sending a request for a paper copy to: Abbott Laboratories, 100 Abbott Park Road, Dept. 383, AP6D2, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6400, attn. Investor Relations. 

9



  

Director Compensation  
Abbott
employees are not compensated for serving on the board or board committees. Abbott's non-employee directors are compensated for their service under the Abbott Laboratories
Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan and the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program. 
The
following table sets forth a summary of the non-employee directors' 2006 compensation. 



Name
 
Fees Earned or
Paid in Cash
($) (1)
 
Stock Awards
($) (2)
 
Option Awards
($) (3)
 
Change in Pension
Value and
Nonqualified
Deferred
Compensation
Earnings ($) (5)
 
All Other
Compensation ($)
 
Total ($)





R. S. Austin
 
$
84,004
 
$
89,972
 
$
0
 
$
0
 
$
3,446
 
$
177,422





W. M. Daley
 
 
80,004
 
 
89,972
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
6,603
 
 
176,579





W. J. Farrell
 
 
73,337
 
 
89,972
 
 
0
 
 
1,080
 
 
1,847
 
 
166,236





H. L. Fuller
 
 
92,004
 
 
89,972
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
34,476
(6)
 
216,452





J. M. Greenberg
 
 
96,004
 
 
89,972
 
 
0
 
 
10,045
 
 
38,522
(6)
 
234,543





D. A. L. Owen
 
 
84,004
 
 
89,972
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
3,446
 
 
177,422





B. Powell Jr.
 
 
80,004
 
 
89,972
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
84,157
(6)
 
254,133





W. A. Reynolds
 
 
92,004
 
 
89,972
 
 
0
 
 
1,490
 
 
67,019
(6)
 
250,485





R. S. Roberts
 
 
80,004
 
 
89,972
 
 
0
 
 
1,296
 
 
6,640
 
 
177,912





W. D. Smithburg
 
 
96,004
 
 
89,972
 
 
19,009
(4)
 
0
 
 
106,408
(6)
 
311,393





J. R. Walter
 
 
69,670
 
 
89,972
 
 
0
 
 
3,981
 
 
26,212
(6)
 
189,835







(1)Under
the Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan, non-employee directors earn $6,667 for each month of service as a director (effective as of the
2007 Annual Meeting, this will increase to $8,000 for each month of service) and $1,000 for each month of service as a chairman of a board committee. Effective as of the 2006 Annual Meeting, the
chairman of the audit committee receives $1,500 for each month of service as a chairman of that committee and the other members of the audit committee receive $500 for each month of service as a
committee member. 

Fees
earned under the Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan are paid in cash to the director, paid in the form of non-qualified stock options (based on an
independent appraisal of their fair market value), deferred (as a non-funded obligation of Abbott), or paid currently into an individual grantor trust established by the director. The
distribution of deferred fees and amounts held in a director's grantor trust generally commences when the director reaches age 65, or upon retirement from the board of directors. The director may
elect to have deferred fees and fees deposited in trust credited to either a guaranteed interest account at the prime rate plus 2.25 percentage points or to a stock equivalent account that
earns the same return as if the fees were invested in Abbott stock. If necessary, Abbott contributes funds to a director's trust so that as of year end the stock equivalent account balance (net of
taxes) is not less than seventy-five percent of the value of the related Abbott common stock at year end. Abbott pays the director for any tax owed on the income earned by the trust or any
supplemental contribution to the trust by Abbott. 


(2)The
following restricted shares and restricted share units were outstanding as of December 31, 2006: R. S. Austin, 4,016; W. M. Daley, 4,016; W. J.
Farrell, 2,127; H. L. Fuller, 4,016; J. M. Greenberg, 4,016; D. A. L. Owen, 4,016; B. Powell Jr., 4,016; W. A. Reynolds, 4,016; R. S. Roberts,
4,016; and W. D. Smithburg, 4,016. The amounts reported in this column represent Abbott's expense recognized in 2006 for outstanding restricted stock awards and were calculated in accordance
with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123(R), "Share-based Payment." Abbott determines the aggregate grant date fair value of stock awards by multiplying the number of
restricted shares granted by the average of the 

10

 

high
and low market prices of an Abbott common share on the date of grant. In addition to the fees described in footnote 1, each non-employee director elected to the board of
directors at the annual shareholder meeting also received stock equivalent units having a value of $90,000 (rounded down). In 2006, this was 2,127 units. Effective as of the 2007 annual
meeting, each non-employee director elected at the annual shareholder meeting will receive stock equivalent units having a value of $96,000 (rounded down). The non-employee
directors receive cash payments equal to the dividends paid on the Abbott shares covered by the units at the same rate as other shareholders. Upon termination, retirement from the board, death, or a
change in control of Abbott, a non-employee director will receive one Abbott common share for each restricted share unit outstanding under the Incentive Stock Program. The amounts reported
in this column also represent the grant date fair value of the award. 


(3)The
following options were outstanding as of December 31, 2006: R. S. Austin, 6,668; H. L. Fuller, 59,803; J. M. Greenberg, 16,857; D. A. L.
Owen, 31,243; W. A. Reynolds, 47,706; R. S. Roberts, 35,660; W. D. Smithburg, 28,240; and J. R. Walter, 42,194.
(4)These
are replacement options that were issued to Mr. Smithburg when he paid the exercise price of previously issued options with Abbott common shares. The amount reported in
this column represents Abbott's expense for stock options and was calculated in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123(R), excluding an estimate of forfeitures
related to service-based vesting conditions. The value reported in this column was determined as of the replacement option's grant date using a Black-Scholes stock option valuation model. The model
uses the following assumptions: expected volatility of 28%; dividend yield between 2.5% and 2.8%; risk-free interest
between 4.9% and 5.1%; and average life between 6.0 months and 9.6 months. The amount reported in this column also represents the grant date fair value of the award.
(5)The
totals in this column include reportable interest credited under Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan during the year.
(6)The
amounts reported in this column include tax payments made in connection with the director's trust established under the Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors' Fee
Plan, as follows: H. L. Fuller, $28,073; B. Powell Jr., $50,758; W. A. Reynolds, $40,589; W. D. Smithburg, $71,700; and J. R. Walter, $20,338. Abbott's
non-employee directors are eligible to participate in Abbott's charitable matching grant program, which matches the director's contributions (up to $25,000 annually) to charities
recognized by the Internal Revenue Service. These amounts also include charitable matching grant contributions, as follows: J. M. Greenberg, $25,000; B. Powell Jr., $24,997;
W. A. Reynolds, $18,500; and W. D. Smithburg, $25,000. 

11


  

Security Ownership of Executive Officers and Directors  
The
table below reflects the number of common shares beneficially owned as of January 31, 2007, by each person who served as a director of Abbott during 2006, by each director nominee, by the
chief executive officer, the chief financial officer, and the four other most highly paid executive officers (the "named officers"), and by all directors, director nominees, and executive officers of
Abbott as a group. It also reflects the number of stock equivalent units and restricted stock units held by non-employee directors under the Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee
Directors' Fee Plan. 






Name

 
Shares
Beneficially
Owned
(1)(2)(3)
 
Stock Options Exercisable within 60 days of
January 31, 2007
 
Stock
Equivalent
Units





R. S. Austin
 
10,860
 
6,668
 
0





W. M. Daley
 
7,516
 
0
 
3,949





W. G. Dempsey
 
183,821
 
647,574
 
0





W. J. Farrell
 
3,127
 
0
 
0





T. C. Freyman
 
258,320
 
389,310
 
0





H. L. Fuller
 
38,650
 
52,710
 
47,239





R. A. Gonzalez
 
405,790
 
2,010,062
 
0





J. M. Greenberg
 
10,860
 
16,857
 
0





J. M. Leiden
 
0
 
0
 
0





H. Liepmann
 
118,095
 
301,554
 
0





D. A. L. Owen
 
18,523
 
31,243
 
6,048





B. Powell Jr.
 
30,245
 
0
 
82,325





W. A. Reynolds
 
39,423
 
44,706
 
75,256





R. S. Roberts
 
15,508
 
35,660
 
1,431





S. C. Scott III
 
0
 
0
 
0





W. D. Smithburg
 
61,595
 
25,129
 
117,364





G. F. Tilton
 
960
 
0
 
0





J. R. Walter
 
35,258
 
42,194
 
30,680





M. D. White
 
948,350
 
3,272,981
 
0





All directors, director nominees, and executive officers as a group (4)(5)
 
3,287,075
 
9,635,553
 
364,292







(1)The
table includes the shares held in the officers' accounts in the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Trust as follows: W. G. Dempsey, 10,576;
T. C. Freyman, 18,956; R. A. Gonzalez, 17,831; H. Liepmann, 13,518; M. D. White, 16,867; and, all executive officers as a
group, 146,165. Each officer has shared voting power and sole investment power with respect to the shares held in his account.
(2)The
table includes restricted stock units held by the non-employee directors and payable in stock upon their retirement from the board, as follows:
R. S. Austin, 4,016; W. M. Daley, 4,016; W. J. Farrell, 2,127; H. L. Fuller, 4,016;
J. M. Greenberg, 4,016; D. A. L. Owen, 4,016; B. Powell Jr., 4,016; W. A. Reynolds, 4,016;
R. S. Roberts, 4,016; and W. D. Smithburg, 4,016; and all directors as a group, 38,271.
(3)The
table includes shares pledged as security as follows: R. A. Gonzalez, 7,600; and T. C. Freyman, 47,292.
(4)Certain
executive officers of Abbott are fiduciaries of several employee benefit trusts maintained by Abbott. As such, they have shared voting and/or investment power with respect to
the common shares held by those trusts. The table does not include the shares held by the trusts. As of January 31, 2007, these trusts owned a total of 52,826,087 (3.4%) of the outstanding
shares of Abbott.
(5)Excluding
the shared voting and/or investment power over the shares held by the trusts described in footnote 4, the directors director nominees, and executive officers as a
group together own beneficially less than one percent of the outstanding shares of Abbott. 

12



  

Executive Compensation  
Compensation Discussion and Analysis  
COMPENSATION PHILOSOPHY  

The Compensation Committee has established a compensation philosophy to attract, retain and motivate executives and to align their financial rewards with shareholder returns. The following guiding
principles apply: 
All
components of both performance and pay should be examined relative to two peer groups: 

1.Primarily
to direct health care competitors. This group presently includes Amgen, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Eli Lilly and Company, Glaxo SmithKline plc, Johnson & Johnson,
Merck & Company, Inc., Novartis, Pfizer, Inc., Schering-Plough Corporation and Wyeth.
2.Secondarily,
to a select group of global, diversified high performing companies with a five-year average return on equity of 18% or higher and similar to Abbott in terms of
size and/or scope of operations. This group currently includes Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc., Bristol-Meyers Squibb Company, Caterpillar, The Coca-Cola Company, Colgate-Palmolive
Company, Eastman Kodak Company, Eli Lilly and Company, General Dynamics Corporation, General Mills, Inc., The Gillette Company, H.J. Heinz Company, Kellogg Company, Kimberly-Clark
Corporation, Merck & Company, Inc., 3M, PepsiCo, Inc., Pfizer, Inc. and Sara Lee Corporation. 
To
achieve the Compensation Committee's objectives, Abbott's pay plans must serve three primary purposes. First, they must be competitive. Presently, competitive means targeting total compensation, in
the aggregate (i.e., including base pay, short-term incentives, long-term incentives and benefits) in a manner that references the median of our primary health care comparison
group as an initial benchmark, but varies based on individual and company performance for the period relative to those peer groups. Individual targets are equitably set on the same basis, compared to
both peer groups and internal benchmarks. Secondly, pay should vary based on company and individual performance. Thirdly, they should align participant's interests with shareholders. 
Specifically,
base salaries are typically reviewed annually. Overall, company targets are set based on the company's business plan. Individual increases are granted based on performance (merit), and
influenced by internal and external equity. The Compensation Committee focuses on those elements of pay that are driven by performance, rather than on fixed elements such as base pay. 
Short-term
(annual) incentive targets are determined annually. Specific performance goals supporting both the company's overall goals for the year and the contributions of each executive
in his or her own area of responsibility are established. In this way, each executive's bonus is directly tied to company results, yet varies based on the individual's actual performance.
Short-term incentives primarily support the setting and tracking of individual and team goals, and rewarding performance that facilitates their achievement. In the aggregate,
short-term incentives should trail our peers when performance trails, match our peers when performance is at peer levels and exceed peers when performance does. 
Long-term
incentives are typically in the form of equity-based awards and are designed to increase executives' ownership in the company, creating direct alignment with the interests of
shareholders. As with other pay elements, reference is made to the median of competitive benchmarks, but the actual awards vary based on Abbott's overall results compared to peers, the company's
business plan, and individual performance. Long-term incentives serve two primary purposes. The first objective is the retention of our senior leaders, a key asset of the company.
Secondly, long term incentives help to continuously align shareholder and executive interests. Accordingly, while reference is made to the competitive medians, long-term incentive awards
should trail competitors when performance trails, match competitors when performance matches, and exceed competitors when performance exceeds their performance. To achieve this outcome, Abbott
currently grants both non-qualified stock options and full value shares subject to vesting restrictions. The full value shares are typically granted in two forms: performance based
restricted stock with a return on equity vesting threshold and traditional time-vested shares, which provide for cliff vesting to provide retention incentives for the recipient. 
Post-retirement
and certain other benefits are also necessary to attract and retain key executives. In the aggregate, while the practices of individual companies vary widely, these plans
also reference competitive medians which are adjusted to reflect the actual performance of the individual and the company. 
HOW OUR PHILOSOPHY GUIDES SPECIFIC DECISIONS  

Each named officer establishes specific written goals for each performance period, typically a calendar year. These goals establish specific targets which are tied with the financial, strategic and
operational goals of the company and may include, among others, goals relating to earnings, sales, earnings per share, and similar financial measures. The Chief Operating Officer and Chief Executive
Officer review the goals of each executive for alignment and calibration with the overall objectives of the company. The Chief Executive Officer's goals are established with input from and are
reviewed by the independent Board members. The Chief Executive Officer evaluates the performance and recommends the total compensation award for each named officer, other than himself. The Chief
Executive Officer's performance, as against these established goals, is reviewed by the Compensation Committee and, based upon that evaluation, the Committee determines the compensation of the Chief
Executive Officer, with the exception of the Chief Executive Officer's base compensation, which is approved by the 

13

 


independent directors of the full board, following the recommendation of the Committee. The Committee also reviews the performance of the company's other executive officers, taking into consideration
the Chief Executive Officer's recommendation, and determines their compensation based on that review. 
COMPENSATION COMPONENTS  

Using compensation survey data from the peer groups, a range for total compensation and each of its elements—base salary, annual incentive, long-term incentives and
non-cash compensation—is annually established by the Committee for each named officer. The Committee considered a number of alternative financial metrics to assess Abbott's
relative performance. Based upon the advice of its independent compensation consultant, and its own review, the Committee determined that total shareholder return, earnings per share, return on
equity, and return on net assets were appropriate performance measures. The Committee also evaluates the success of the management team as a whole and each officer's goals in the development and
execution of strategic plans, the development of talent, successful progress of Abbott's diversity initiative, and the exercise of leadership within the industry and in the communities that Abbott
serves. 
Specific
pay decisions for the named officers are described below and reflected in the Summary Compensation Table on page 17 of this proxy statement. 
Base
Pay 
An
overall merit budget of 3.5% was established for executive staff in 2006. This target equals the target for most of Abbott's U. S. employee population. Most executives received a 3.5% merit
increase, but due to individual performance, peer comparisons both outside and inside the company, promotions, career growth and potential, individual increases varied. 
Performance-Based
Annual Cash Incentives 
All
named officers participate in the 1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan (PIP). The PIP is designed to comply with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 for performance-based compensation. 
Each
year, maximum award allocations awards for PIP participants as a percentage of consolidated net earnings are set. For 2006, the maximum award for the Chief Executive Officer was .0015 of adjusted
consolidated net earnings for the fiscal year; for the Chief Operating Officer .0010 of adjusted consolidated net earnings; and for all other PIP participants .00075 of adjusted consolidated net
earnings. Actual awards paid to PIP participants varied based on both corporate and individual results. Historically, and in 2006, the Committee has used its discretion to deliver PIP award amounts
well below the maximums. For 2006, the company met or exceeded all of its predetermined financial goals, which included consolidated net earnings, profitability, sales and earnings per share. Abbott
delivered annual shareholder returns in the top quartile of the health care peer group. The longer term measure of five-year total shareholder returns exceeded the average of the companies
in Abbott's health care peer group, positioned between the 50th and 75th percentiles. Accordingly, after examining the one-year and five-year
performance measures, the Compensation Committee determined that, in the aggregate, actual awards should be targeted between the 50th and 75th percentile of peers.
Individual award amounts varied based upon each individual's relative performance against pre-determined goals. 
Long-Term
Incentives—Equity Awards 
Based
on its analysis of the competitive long-term incentive practice in the market place, the goals of the company's long-term incentive program, the recommendation of its
independent compensation consultant, current outstanding awards held by named officers and the Committee's assessment that the management team's operating performance exceeded that of Abbott's
comparators as described above, the Committee determined that the annual long-term incentive award in 2006 should be targeted midway between the median and seventy-fifth percentile of the
market place. Applying these standards, the Committee determined the value for each named officer and made the awards reported in the Summary Compensation Table as shown on page 17 of this
proxy statement. Further, the Committee determined in 2006, based on changing market practice, input from its independent compensation consultant and to align with recommendations of institutional
shareholders, the long-term incentive award for named officers should be in the form of 50% stock options and 50% performance-vested shares. 
Abbott's
policy with respect to its annual equity award for all employees, including the Chief Executive Officer, executive officers and all other officers of the company, is to grant this award and
set the grant price at the same time each year, at the Compensation Committee's regularly scheduled February meeting. These meeting dates are generally the third Friday of February and are scheduled
two years in advance. In 2006, the annual grant was dated and the grant price set on February 17th. The historical practice for setting the grant price is the average of the
highest and lowest trading price of a common share on the date of the grant (rounded up to the next even penny). The grant price for the 2006 annual grant was set at $44.16. The high, low and closing
price of an Abbott common share on February 17th was $44.50, $43.80 and $44.34, respectively. 
In
establishing criteria for performance vesting shares, the Committee considered the recommendation of its independent compensation consultant, and the fact that the secondary comparison of
"High-Performance Companies" is currently defined by five-year average return on equity of 18% or greater. Accordingly, performance-based stock awards granted in 2006 will be
earned (vested) over a period of up to five years, with not more than one-third of the award vesting in any one year, dependent upon the company achieving an annual return on equity
threshold of 18% from continuing operations adjusted for specified items per the quarterly earnings releases (which is currently above the median of Abbott's Standard Industrial Classification peer
group). If the thresholds are met in three of the five years, 100% of the performance shares will vest. If the thresholds are not met in any of the five years, 100% of the performance shares will be
forfeited. 

14

 

Post
Termination and Other Benefits 
Each
of the benefits described below were chosen to support the company's objective of providing a total competitive pay program. Individual benefits do not directly affect decisions regarding other
benefits or pay components, except to the extent that all benefits and pay components must, in aggregate, be competitive, as previously discussed. 
Retirement
Benefits 
The
named officers participate in two Abbott-sponsored defined benefit plans: the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan ("ARP") and the Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan ("SERP").
These plans are described in greater detail in the section of the proxy statement captioned "Pension Benefits". 
Since
officers' SERP benefits cannot be secured in a manner similar to qualified plans, which are held in trust, officers receive an annual cash payment equal to the increase in present value of their
SERP benefit. Officers have the option of depositing these annual payments to an individually established grantor trust, net of tax withholdings. Deposited amounts may be credited with the difference
between the officer's actual annual trust earnings and the rate used to calculate trust funding (currently eight percent). Since amounts contributed to the trust have already been taxed, Abbott remits
the tax owed on the income earned by the trust or any company adjustment paid to the trust, thus preserving the parity of the benefit to those payable under the ARP. The manner in which the grantor
trust will be distributed to an officer upon retirement from the company generally follows the manner elected by the officer under the ARP. Should an officer (or his spouse depending upon the pension
distribution method elected by the officer under the ARP) live beyond the actuarial life expectancy age used to determine the SERP benefit and therefore exhaust the trust balance, the SERP benefit
will be paid to the officer by Abbott. 
Deferred
Compensation 
Officers
of the company, like all U.S. employees, are eligible to defer a portion of annual base salary, on a pre-tax basis, to the company's qualified 401(k) plan, up to the IRS
contribution limits. Officers are also eligible to defer up to 18% of their base salary, less contributions to the 401(k) plan, to a non-qualified plan. 100% of annual incentive awards
earned under the company's PIP Plan are also eligible for deferral to a non-qualified plan. Officers may defer these amounts to unfunded book accounts or choose to have the amounts paid in
cash on a current basis and deposited into individually established grantor trusts, net of tax withholdings. These amounts are credited annually with earnings equivalent to the average prime rate over
the previous thirteen months plus 2.25 percent. Since amounts contributed to the trusts have already been taxed, Abbott remits the tax owed on the income earned by the trusts or any company
adjustment paid to the trusts. Officers elect the manner in which the assets held in their grantor trusts will be distributed to them upon retirement or other separation from the company. 
Change
in Control (CIC) Arrangements 
On
February 16, 2007 Messrs. White, Gonzalez and Freyman informed the Compensation Committee that they would voluntarily terminate their individual CIC agreements with the Company,
effective February 28, 2007. 
Abbott's
other executive officers have individual CIC agreements. The purpose of these agreements is to aid in retention and recruitment, encourage continued attention and dedication to assigned
duties during periods involving a possible change in control of the company and to protect the earned benefits of the officer against adverse changes resulting from a change in control. The level of
payments provided under the agreements is established to be consistent with market practice as confirmed by data provided the Committee by its independent compensation consultant. These arrangements
are described in greater detail in the section of the proxy captioned "Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change-in-Control". 
Financial
Planning 
Named
officers are eligible for up to $10,000 of annual costs associated with estate planning advice, tax preparation and general financial planning fees. If an officer chooses to utilize this
benefit, fees for services received up to the annual allocation are paid by the company and are treated as imputed income to the officer who then is responsible for payment of all taxes due on the
fees paid by the company. 
Company
Automobile 
Named
officers are eligible for use of a company-leased vehicle, with a lease term of 50 months. Seventy five (75%) percent of the cost of the vehicle is imputed to the officer as income. 
Company
Aircraft 
Non-business
related flights on corporate aircraft are covered by time-sharing lease agreements, pursuant to which certain costs associated with those flights are reimbursed in accordance with Federal
Aviation Administration regulations. Messrs. Gonzalez, Freyman, and White have such agreements and reimbursed the Company for non-business flights in accordance with those agreements. 
Disability
Benefit 
In
addition to Abbott's standard disability benefits, the named officers are eligible for a monthly long-term disability benefit, which is described in greater detail in the section of the
proxy captioned, "Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change-in-Control." 
SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES  

To further promote sustained shareholder return and to ensure the company's executives remain focused on both short and long-term objectives, the company has established share ownership
guidelines. Each officer has five years from the date appointed/elected to his/her position to achieve the ownership level associated with the position. The share ownership requirements are 175,000
shares for 

15

 


the Chief Executive Officer; 100,000 shares for the Chief Operating Officer; 50,000 shares for Executive Vice Presidents and Senior Vice Presidents and 25,000 shares for all other officers. All named
officers meet or substantially exceed the guidelines. 
As
provided in Abbott's Stock Incentive Program, no award may be assigned, alienated, sold or transferred otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified
domestic relations order or as permitted by the Committee for estate planning purposes, and no award and no right under any award, may be pledged, alienated, attached or otherwise encumbered. All
members of senior management, including the company's executive officers, and certain other employees are required to clear any transaction involving company stock with the General Counsel prior to
entering into such transaction. 
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S COMPENSATION  

The company's performance for 2006 as described above and as reflected in the company's financial statements included strong growth in sales, earnings and shareholder returns that placed Abbott in the
top quartile of the health care peer group. Accordingly, in evaluating Mr. White's overall performance, the Committee determined that Mr. White exceeded his strategic and financial goals
for 2006. Therefore, in February 2007, the Committee awarded Mr. White a PIP bonus of $4,050,000 for his performance in 2006, intended to recognize his leadership in guiding the Company
to top-quartile performance. 
Other
2006 compensation approved for Mr. White by the Committee and Independent Directors of the Board, as appropriate, in February 2006 (the Committee's Charter requires the CEO's base
salary be approved by the Independent Directors of the Board) included a base salary increase of 3.5%, the average of the company's U.S. merit increase budget, to $1,671,100, a 438,000 share stock
option grant and a 139,000 share performance vesting restricted stock award. 
COMPLIANCE  

The PIP and Incentive Stock Program, which are described above, are intended to comply with Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) to ensure deductibility. 
The
Committee reserves the flexibility to take actions that may be based on considerations in addition to tax deductibility. The Committee believes that shareholder interests are best served by not
restricting the Committee's discretion and flexibility in crafting compensation programs, even if such programs may result in certain non-deductible compensation expenses. Accordingly, the
Committee may from time to time approve components of compensation for certain officers that are not deductible. 
While
the Committee does not anticipate there would ever be circumstances where a restatement of earnings upon which any incentive plan award decisions were based would occur, the Committee, in
evaluating such circumstances, has discretion to take all actions necessary to protect the interests of shareholders up to and including actions to recover such incentive awards. Such circumstances
have never occurred. 
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT  

The Compensation Committee of the Board is primarily responsible for reviewing, approving and overseeing Abbott's compensation plans and practices, and works with management and the committee's
independent consultant to establish Abbott's executive compensation philosophy and programs. The Committee has reviewed and discussed the Compensation Discussion and Analysis with management and has
recommended to the Board that the Compensation Discussion and Analysis be included in this proxy statement. 
Compensation Committee 

W. D. Smithburg, Chairman, W. M. Daley, W. J. Farrell, H. L. Fuller, and B. Powell Jr. 

16


  

Summary Compensation Table  

The following table summarizes compensation awarded to, earned by, or paid to the named officers in 2006. The section of the proxy statement captioned "Compensation Discussion and
Analysis—Compensation Components" describes in greater detail the information reported in this table. 



Name and
Principal Position

 
Year
 
Salary ($)
 
Stock Awards
($) (1)
 
Option
Awards
($) (2)
 
Non-Equity
Incentive
Plan
Compensation
($) (3)
 
Change in
Pension
Value and
Non-qualified
Deferred
Compensation
Earnings
($) (4)
 
All Other
Compensation
($) (5)
 
Total ($) (6)





Miles D. White,
Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Director 
 
2006
 
$
1,661,973
 
$
10,560,151
 
$
8,479,149
 
$
4,050,000
 
$
1,308,852
 
$
855,233
 
$
26,915,358





Richard A. Gonzalez,
Chief Operating Officer and Director
 
2006
 
 
973,931
 
 
8,496,529
 
 
4,322,329
 
 
1,535,000
 
 
912,509
 
 
472,991
 
 
16,713,289





Thomas C. Freyman,
Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer 
 
2006
 
 
812,884
 
 
1,829,920
 
 
1,269,012
 
 
1,091,000
 
 
745,382
 
 
273,281
 
 
6,021,479





William G. Dempsey,
Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products Group 
 
2006
 
 
630,583
 
 
1,773,391
 
 
1,281,960
 
 
756,000
 
 
710,542
 
 
319,151
 
 
5,471,627





Holger Liepmann,
Executive Vice President,
Global Nutrition 
 
2006
 
 
625,962
 
 
1,686,423
 
 
1,334,455
 
 
657,000
 
 
760,795
 
 
624,063
 
 
5,688,698





Jeffrey M. Leiden,
Former President and Chief Operating Officer, Pharmaceutical Products Group and Director (7)
 
2006
 
 
225,083
 
 
4,053,861
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
241,792
 
 
244,055
 
 
4,764,791







(1)The
amounts reported in this column represent expense recognized in 2006 for outstanding restricted stock awards, were calculated in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards
Board Statement No. 123(R), "Share-based Payment" and include expense for awards granted in 2006 and prior years. These amounts were determined by multiplying the number of restricted shares
granted by the average of the high and low market prices of an Abbott common share on the date of grant, allocated over the vesting period of the award.
(2)The
amounts reported in this column represent expense recognized in 2006 for outstanding stock options and were calculated in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board
Statement No. 123(R), excluding an estimate of forfeitures related to service-based vesting conditions. Although these awards vest over three years, Abbott recognized the full value of these
awards as expense in 2006 as the named officers are retirement eligible. These amounts were determined as of the option's grant date using a Black-Scholes stock option valuation model. For options,
other than replacement options, the model uses the assumptions described in Note 9, entitled "Incentive Stock Program" of Abbott's Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under
Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in Abbott's 2006 Annual Report on Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K. For replacement options, the model uses
the following assumptions: expected volatility of 28%, dividend yield ranging between 2.4% and 2.8%, risk-free interest ranging between 4.6% and 5.0%, and an option life equal to 61% of
the option's remaining term.
(3)This
compensation is earned as a performance-based incentive bonus, pursuant to the 1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan. Additional information regarding the
Performance Incentive Plan can be found in the section of this proxy statement captioned, "Compensation Discussion and Analysis – Compensation Components –
Performance-based Annual Cash Incentives."
(4)The
following plan amounts are reported in this column: 

Abbott
Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan.    M. D. White: $25,025; R. A. Gonzalez: $30,651;
T. C. Freyman: $29,849; W. G. Dempsey: $48,486; H. Liepmann: $31,824; and J. M. Leiden: $3,245. 
Abbott
Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan.    M. D. White: $972,873; R. A. Gonzalez: $763,682;
T. C. Freyman: $702,566; W. G. Dempsey: $492,654; H. Liepmann: $642,705; and J. M. Leiden: $46,641. 
Non-Qualified
Defined Contribution Plan Earnings.    The totals in this column include reportable interest credited under 


17

 



Abbott's non-qualified defined contribution plans as follows: M. D. White: $310,954; R. A. Gonzalez: $118,176;
T. C. Freyman: $12,967; W. G. Dempsey: $169,402; H. Liepmann: $86,266; and J. M. Leiden: $191,906. 


(5)The
amounts reported in this column include the following: 

Earnings,
Fees and Tax Payments for Non-Qualified Defined Benefit and Non-Qualified Defined Contribution Plans (net of reportable interest included in
footnote 4): 
M. D. White: $675,843;
R. A. Gonzalez: $349,822; T. C. Freyman: $217,119; W. G. Dempsey: $261,738;
H. Liepmann: $485,077; and J. M. Leiden: $194,695. 

Each
of the named officers' awards under The 1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan are paid in cash to the officer on a current basis and may be deposited into a grantor trust
established by the officer, net of maximum tax withholdings. None of the named officers currently receives awards under the 1986 Abbott Laboratories Management Incentive Plan, but grantor trusts were
established by the officers under that plan, as well. 

Employer
Contributions to Defined Contribution Plans. 
M. D. White: $83,099;
R. A. Gonzalez: $48,697; T. C. Freyman: $40,644; W. G. Dempsey: $31,529;
H. Liepmann: $31,298; and J. M. Leiden: $10,620. 

These
amounts include employer contributions both to Abbott's tax-qualified defined contribution plan and to the Abbott Laboratories 401(k) Supplemental Plan. The Abbott Laboratories 401(k)
Supplemental Plan permits Abbott's officers to contribute amounts in excess of the limit set by the Internal Revenue Code for employee contributions to 401(k) plans up to the excess of (i) 18%
of their base salary over (ii) the amount contributed to Abbott's tax-qualified 401(k) plan. Abbott matches participant contributions at the rate of 250% of the first 2% of
compensation contributed to the Plan. The named officers have these amounts paid to them in cash on a current basis and deposited into a grantor trust established by the officer, net of maximum tax
withholdings. 

All
Other Compensation. 
M. D. White: $96,291;
R. A. Gonzalez: $74,472; T. C. Freyman: $15,518; W. G. Dempsey: $25,884;
H. Liepmann: $107,688; and J. M. Leiden: $38,740. 

Non-business
related flights on corporate aircraft are covered by time-sharing lease agreements, pursuant to which certain costs associated with those flights are reimbursed in accordance with Federal
Aviation Administration regulations. Messrs. Gonzalez, Freyman, and White have such agreements and reimbursed the Company for non-business flights in accordance with those agreements. 
Included
in All Other Compensation are the following amounts, which reflect Abbott's incremental cost less reimbursements for non-business related flights: M. D. White, $90,154; R. A.
Gonzalez, $43,546; T. C. Freyman, $8,148; and, J. M. Leiden $11,235. The company determines the incremental cost for these flights based on the direct cost to Abbott, including fuel
costs, parking, handling and landing fees, catering, travel fees, and other miscellaneous direct costs. 
Also
included in All Other Compensation is the cost of providing a corporate automobile less amount reimbursed by the executive: M. D. White, $6,137; R. A. Gonzalez, $23,426;
T. C. Freyman, $7,370; W. G. Dempsey, $15,884; H. Liepmann, $22,561; and, J. M. Leiden, $17,505. 
For
Messrs. Gonzalez, Dempsey, Liepmann, and Dr. Leiden, costs associated with financial planning are included: R. A. Gonzalez, $7,500; W. G. Dempsey, $10,000; H. Liepmann,
$10,000; and, J. M. Leiden, $10,000. 
For
Mr. Liepmann, incremental tax payments of $75,127 resulting from his multi-year assignment outside the United States are included. 
The
named officers are also eligible to participate in an executive disability benefit described on page 15. 



(6)The
amount of salary and bonus (including performance-based bonuses described in footnote 3, above) in relation to total compensation is as follows: M. D. White: 21.2%;
R. A. Gonzalez: 15.0%; T. C. Freyman: 31.6%; W. G. Dempsey: 25.3%; H. Liepmann: 22.6%; and J. M. Leiden: 4.7%.
(7)Effective
March 24, 2006, Dr. Jeffrey M. Leiden stepped down as a director and as president and chief operating officer of Abbott's Pharmaceutical Products Group. 



18


  

Grants of Plan-Based Awards  




 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Estimated Future Payouts Under Equity Incentive Plan Awards Target (#)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
Estimated Future Payouts Under Non-Equity Incentive Plan Awards (1)
 
All Other Stock Awards: Number of Shares of Stock or Units (#)
 
All Other Option Awards: Numbers of Securities Underlying Options (#)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
Exercise or Base Price of Options Awards ($/Sh.) (6)
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 

 
Closing Market Price on Grant Date
 
Grant Date Fair Value of Stock and Option Awards
 


Name
 
Grant Date
 
Target ($)
 
Maximum ($)
 



 


M. D. White
 
2/17/06
 
 
 
 
 
139,000
(2)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
6,138,240
(7)


 
 
2/17/06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
438,000
(3)
$
44.16
 
$
44.34
 
 
5,133,360
(8)


 
 
7/27/06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2,121
(4)
 
47.10
 
 
47.22
 
 
6,384
(8)


 
 
7/27/06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41,579
(4)
 
47.10
 
 
47.22
 
 
344,274
(8)


 
 
7/27/06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
273,778
(4)
 
47.10
 
 
47.22
 
 
2,995,131
(8)



 


R. A. Gonzalez
 
2/17/06
 
 
 
 
 
100,000
(2)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4,416,000
(7)


 
 
3/27/06
 
 
 
 
 
25,000
(2)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,097,750
(7)


 
 
2/17/06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
310,000
(3)
 
44.16
 
 
44.34
 
 
3,633,200
(8)


 
 
3/31/06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
71,191
(4)
 
42.64
 
 
42.47
 
 
689,129
(8)



 


T. C. Freyman
 
2/17/06
 
 
 
 
 
28,600
(2)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,262,976
(7)


 
 
2/17/06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
83,000
(3)
 
44.16
 
 
44.34
 
 
972,760
(8)


 
 
2/15/06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29,245
(4)
 
43.73
 
 
44.15
 
 
296,252
(8)



 


W. G. Dempsey
 
2/17/06
 
 
 
 
 
26,500
(2)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,170,240
(7)


 
 
11/1/06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20,000
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
947,000
(7)


 
 
2/17/06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
83,000
(3)
 
44.16
 
 
44.34
 
 
972,760
(8)


 
 
2/14/06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27,328
(4)
 
42.83
 
 
43.73
 
 
268,088
(8)


 
 
8/16/06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2,054
(4)
 
48.66
 
 
49.28
 
 
17,315
(8)


 
 
8/16/06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2,082
(4)
 
48.66
 
 
49.28
 
 
23,797
(8)



 


H. Liepmann
 
2/17/06
 
 
 
 
 
26,500
(2)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,170,240
(7)


 
 
2/17/06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
83,000
(3)
 
44.16
 
 
44.34
 
 
972,760
(8)


 
 
1/31/06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17,954
(4)
 
42.94
 
 
43.15
 
 
178,642
(8)


 
 
2/15/06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2,286
(4)
 
43.73
 
 
44.15
 
 
12,756
(8)


 
 
6/30/06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17,395
(4)
 
42.90
 
 
43.61
 
 
170,297
(8)



 


J. M. Leiden
 
2/17/06
 
 
 
 
 
100,000
(5)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4,416,000
(7)


 
 
1/31/06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
70,249
(4),(5)
 
42.94
 
 
43.15
 
 
155,250
(8)


 
 
2/17/06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
310,000
(5)
 
44.16
 
 
44.34
 
 
3,633,200
(8)



 




(1)Each
of the named officers participates in the 1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan, an annual, non-equity incentive plan. The annual cash incentive award
earned by the named officer in 2006 under the plan is shown in the Summary Compensation Table under the column captioned "Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation." No future awards will be
made under the plan's 2006 annual cash incentive award. The Performance Incentive Plan is described in greater detail in the section of the proxy statement captioned, "Compensation
Discussion and Analysis – Compensation Components – Performance-based Annual Cash Incentives."
(2)These
amounts represent the number of shares of performance-based restricted stock granted in 2006 to the named officer. These restricted stock awards have a 5-year term
and vest upon Abbott reaching a minimum return on equity target, with no more than one-third of the award vesting in any year. In 2006, Abbott reached its minimum return on equity target
and one-third of each of these awards vested on February 16, 2007. The equity targets are described in the section of the proxy statement captioned, "Compensation Discussion and
Analysis—Compensation Components—Long-Term Incentives—Equity Awards." In the event of the officer's death or disability or a change in control of Abbott, as defined
in the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, these awards are deemed fully earned. Outstanding restricted shares receive dividends at the same rate as all other shareholders.
(3)One-third
of the shares covered by these options are exercisable after one year; two-thirds after two years; and all after three years. The options vest in the
event of the officer's death or disability or a change in control of Abbott. Under the Incentive Stock Program, these options have an exercise price equal to the average of the high and low market
prices of an Abbott common share on the date of grant. These options do not contain a replacement option feature.
(4)These
are replacement options. When the exercise price of an option with a replacement option feature is paid (or, in the case of a non-qualified stock option, when the
option's exercise price or the withholding taxes resulting on exercise of that option are paid) with shares of Abbott's common stock 

19

 


held by the named officer, a replacement option is granted for the number of shares used to make that payment. Abbott uses the closing price of an Abbott common share on the business day before the
exercise to determine the number of shares required to exercise the related option and the exercise price of the replacement option. The replacement option is exercisable in full six months after the
date of grant, and has a term expiring on the expiration date of the original option. Other terms and conditions of the replacement option award are the same in all material respects to those
applicable to the original grant. 


(5)Effective
March 24, 2006, Dr. Jeffrey M. Leiden stepped down as a director and as president and chief operating officer of Abbott's pharmaceutical products group
and forfeited these stock awards and option awards.
(6)Abbott
determined the exercise price of these options using the average of the highest and lowest price (rounded-up to the next even penny) of an Abbott common share on
the grant date.
(7)Abbott
determines the aggregate grant date fair value of stock awards by multiplying the number of restricted shares granted by the average of the high and low market prices of an
Abbott common share on the grant date.
(8)These
values were determined as of the option's grant date using a Black-Scholes stock option valuation model. For options, other than replacement options, the model uses the
assumptions described in Note 9, entitled "Incentive Stock Program" of Abbott's Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplemental Data" in
Abbott's 2006 Annual Report on Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K. For replacement options, the model uses the following assumptions: expected volatility of 28%, dividend
yield ranging between 2.4% and 2.8%, risk-free interest ranging between 4.6% and 5.0%, and an option life equal to 61% of the option's remaining term. 



20


  

Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End  

The following table summarizes the outstanding equity awards held by the named officers at year-end. 






 
 
Option Awards (1)(2)
 
Stock Awards (1)





Name
 
Number of Securities Underlying Unexercised Options (#) Exercisable
 
Number of Securities Underlying Unexercised Options (#) Unexercisable
 
Equity Incentive Plan Awards: Number of Securities Underlying Unexercised Unearned Options (#)
 
Option Exercise Price ($)
 
Option Expiration Date
 
Number of Shares or Units of Stock That Have Not Vested (#)
 
Market Value of Shares or Units of Stock That Have Not Vested ($)
 
Equity Incentive Plan Awards: Number of Unearned Shares, Units or Other Rights That Have Not Vested (#)
 
Equity Incentive Plan Awards: Market or Payout Value of Unearned Shares, Units or Other Rights That Have Not Vested ($)





M. D. White
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
200,000
(3)
$
9,742,000
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
55,000
(3)
 
2,679,050
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42,533
(3)
 
2,071,782
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
139,000
(3)
$
6,770,690





 
 
169,064
 
 
 
 
 
$
34.7727
 
02/12/08
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
159,608
 
 
 
 
 
 
40.5618
 
09/14/08
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
372,419
 
 
 
 
 
 
42.4978
 
02/11/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
23,664
 
 
 
 
 
 
49.5463
 
02/13/07
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
558,628
 
 
 
 
 
 
45.4488
 
02/08/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
38,007
 
 
 
 
 
 
47.8829
 
02/13/07
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
37,046
 
 
 
 
 
 
47.8829
 
02/12/08
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
131,125
 
 
 
 
 
 
47.8829
 
02/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
675,674
 
 
 
 
 
 
53.6250
 
02/14/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
342,493
 
 
 
 
 
 
33.2314
 
02/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
269,560
 
134,780
(3)
 
 
 
41.0317
 
02/19/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
146,934
 
293,866
(3)
 
 
 
46.3400
 
02/17/15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
224,097
 
 
 
 
 
 
44.6000
 
02/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
438,000
(3)
 
 
 
44.1600
 
02/16/16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
2,121
(3)
 
 
 
47.1000
 
02/13/07
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
41,579
(3)
 
 
 
47.1000
 
02/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
273,778
(3)
 
 
 
47.1000
 
02/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






See footnotes on page 26.




21

 



R. A. Gonzalez
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
145,000
(3)
$
7,062,950
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40,000
(3)
 
1,948,400
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30,933
(3)
 
1,506,746
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100,000
(3)
$
4,871,000





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25,000
(3)
 
1,217,750





 
 
2,875
 
 
 
 
 
$
34.7727
 
02/12/08
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
74,483
 
 
 
 
 
 
42.4978
 
02/11/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
31,921
 
 
 
 
 
 
39.5011
 
07/31/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
266,013
 
 
 
 
 
 
45.4488
 
02/08/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
20,702
 
 
 
 
 
 
45.7965
 
02/13/07
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
22,861
 
 
 
 
 
 
45.7965
 
02/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
48,145
 
 
 
 
 
 
49.8095
 
02/12/08
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
3,761
 
 
 
 
 
 
49.8095
 
02/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
478,824
 
 
 
 
 
 
53.6250
 
02/14/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
1,144
 
 
 
 
 
 
51.0594
 
02/13/07
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
19,814
 
 
 
 
 
 
51.0594
 
02/12/08
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
25,353
 
 
 
 
 
 
51.0594
 
02/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
351,235
 
 
 
 
 
 
33.2314
 
02/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
25,298
 
 
 
 
 
 
40.9471
 
02/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
191,530
 
95,764
(3)
 
 
 
41.0317
 
02/19/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
104,400
 
208,800
(3)
 
 
 
46.3400
 
02/17/15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
2,142
 
 
 
 
 
 
46.6500
 
02/13/07
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
2,142
 
 
 
 
 
 
46.6500
 
02/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
37,256
 
 
 
 
 
 
46.6500
 
02/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
310,000
(3)
 
 
 
44.1600
 
02/16/16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
71,191
 
 
 
 
 
 
42.6400
 
02/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






See footnotes on page 26.




22

 



T. C. Freyman
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25,000
(3)
$
1,217,750
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8,000
(3)
 
389,680
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6,200
(3)
 
302,002
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28,600
(3)
$
1,393,106





 
 
31,920
 
 
 
 
 
$
42.4978
 
02/11/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
106,405
 
 
 
 
 
 
45.4488
 
02/08/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
17,828
 
 
 
 
 
 
46.9196
 
02/13/07
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
24,839
 
 
 
 
 
 
46.9196
 
02/12/08
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
11,767
 
 
 
 
 
 
46.9196
 
02/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
95,764
 
 
 
 
 
 
53.6250
 
02/14/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
24,684
 
 
 
 
 
 
41.0693
 
02/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
31,131
 
 
 
 
 
 
41.6426
 
02/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
39,015
 
19,507
(3)
 
 
 
41.0317
 
02/19/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
2,292
 
 
 
 
 
 
43.6100
 
02/12/08
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
21,267
 
42,533
(3)
 
 
 
46.3400
 
02/17/15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
29,290
 
 
 
 
 
 
46.6500
 
02/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
29,245
 
 
 
 
 
 
43.7300
 
02/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
83,000
(3)
 
 
 
44.1600
 
02/16/16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






See footnotes on page 26.




23

 



W. G. Dempsey
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25,000
(3)
$
1,217,750
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8,000
(3)
 
389,680
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6,200
(3)
 
302,002
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26,500
(3)
$
1,290,815





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20,000
(3)
 
974,200





 
 
74,483
 
 
 
 
 
$
42.4978
 
02/11/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
106,405
 
 
 
 
 
 
45.4488
 
02/08/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
47,411
 
 
 
 
 
 
46.4027
 
02/12/08
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
5,570
 
 
 
 
 
 
50.3827
 
02/13/07
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
22,365
 
 
 
 
 
 
50.3827
 
02/12/08
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
25,566
 
 
 
 
 
 
50.3827
 
02/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
95,764
 
 
 
 
 
 
53.6250
 
02/14/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
53,171
 
 
 
 
 
 
41.1069
 
02/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
31,172
 
 
 
 
 
 
41.6426
 
02/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
39,015
 
19,507
(3)
 
 
 
41.0317
 
02/19/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
2,278
 
 
 
 
 
 
43.8600
 
02/13/07
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
2,279
 
 
 
 
 
 
43.8600
 
02/12/08
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
21,267
 
42,533
(3)
 
 
 
46.3400
 
02/17/15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
28,771
 
 
 
 
 
 
48.2900
 
02/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
22,916
 
 
 
 
 
 
48.6700
 
02/13/07
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
27,328
 
 
 
 
 
 
42.8300
 
02/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
83,000
(3)
 
 
 
44.1600
 
02/16/16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
2,054
(3)
 
 
 
48.6600
 
02/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
2,082
(3)
 
 
 
48.6600
 
02/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






See footnotes on page 26.




24

 



H. Liepmann
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18,000
(3)
 
$876,780
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4,500
(3)
 
219,195
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3,500
(3)
 
170,485
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6,200
(3)
 
302,002
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26,500
(3)
$
1,290,815





 
 
11,703
 
 
 
 
 
$
42.4978
 
02/11/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
15,428
 
 
 
 
 
 
45.4488
 
02/08/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
15,960
 
 
 
 
 
 
44.6124
 
07/08/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
5,479
 
 
 
 
 
 
52.2529
 
02/13/07
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
6,691
 
 
 
 
 
 
52.2529
 
02/12/08
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
3,965
 
 
 
 
 
 
52.2529
 
02/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
53,201
 
 
 
 
 
 
53.6250
 
02/14/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
822
 
 
 
 
 
 
33.2314
 
02/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
2,819
 
 
 
 
 
 
40.9283
 
02/13/07
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
21,281
 
10,639
(3)
 
 
 
41.0317
 
02/19/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
17,734
 
8,867
(3)
 
 
 
38.6258
 
03/30/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
8,761
 
 
 
 
 
 
41.0100
 
02/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
18,666
 
 
 
 
 
 
41.6900
 
02/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
21,267
 
42,533
(3)
 
 
 
46.3400
 
02/17/15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
17,954
 
 
 
 
 
 
42.9400
 
02/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
2,286
 
 
 
 
 
 
43.7300
 
02/12/08
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
83,000
(3)
 
 
 
44.1600
 
02/16/16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
17,395
(3)
 
 
 
42.9000
 
02/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






See footnotes on page 26.




25

 
Footnotes
to Equity Awards table: 

(1)J. M.
Leiden did not have any outstanding equity awards at year-end.
(2)Except
as noted, these options are fully vested.
(3)The
vesting dates of outstanding unexercisable stock options and unvested restricted stock awards at December 31, 2006 are as follows: 







 
 
Option Awards
 
Stock Awards





Name

 
Number of Unexercised Shares Remaining from Original Grant
 
Number of Option Shares Vesting – Date Vested 2007
 
Number of Option Shares Vesting – Date Vested 2008
 
Number of Option Shares Vesting – Date Vested 2009
 
Number of Restricted Shares
 
Number of Restricted Shares Vesting – Date Vested 2007
 
Number of Restricted Shares Vesting – Date Vested 2008
 
Number of Restricted Shares Vesting – Date Vested 2009





M. D. White
 
134,780
 
134,780 – 2/20
 
 
 
 
 
200,000
 
200,000 – 2/15
 
 
 
 





 
 
293,866
 
146,933 – 2/18
 
146,933 – 2/18
 
 
 
55,000
 
55,000 – 2/20
 
 
 
 





 
 
438,000
 
146,000 – 2/17
 
146,000 – 2/17
 
146,000 – 2/17
 
42,533
 
21,267 – 2/18
 
21,266 – 2/18
 
 





 
 
2,121
 
2,121 – 1/27
 
 
 
 
 
139,000
 
(a
)
 
 
 





 
 
41,579
 
41,579 – 1/27
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
273,778
 
273,778 – 1/27
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





R. A. Gonzalez
 
95,764
 
95,764 – 2/20
 
 
 
 
 
145,000
 
145,000 – 2/15
 
 
 
 





 
 
208,800
 
104,400 – 2/18
 
104,400 – 2/18
 
 
 
40,000
 
40,000 – 2/20
 
 
 
 





 
 
310,000
 
103,334 – 2/17
 
103,333 – 2/17
 
103,333 – 2/17
 
30,933
 
15,467 – 2/18
 
15,466 – 2/18
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100,000
 
(a
)
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25,000
 
(b
)
 
 
 





T. C. Freyman
 
19,507
 
19,507 – 2/20
 
 
 
 
 
25,000
 
25,000 – 2/15
 
 
 
 





 
 
42,533
 
21,267 – 2/18
 
21,266 – 2/18
 
 
 
8,000
 
8,000 – 2/20
 
 
 
 





 
 
83,000
 
27,667 – 2/17
 
27,667 – 2/17
 
27,666 – 2/17
 
6,200
 
3,100 – 2/18
 
3,100 – 2/18
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28,600
 
(a
)
 
 
 





W. G. Dempsey
 
19,507
 
19,507 – 2/20
 
 
 
 
 
25,000
 
25,000 – 2/15
 
 
 
 





    
 
42,533
 
21,267 – 2/18
 
21,266 – 2/18
 
 
 
8,000
 
8,000 – 2/20
 
 
 
 





    
 
83,000
 
27,667 – 2/17
 
27,667 – 2/17
 
27,666 – 2/17
 
6,200
 
3,100 – 2/18
 
3,100 – 2/18
 
 





    
 
2,054
 
2,054 – 2/16
 
 
 
 
 
26,500
 
(a
)
 
 
 





    
 
2,082
 
2,082 – 2/16
 
 
 
 
 
20,000
 
 
 
 
 
20,000 – 11/1





H. Liepmann
 
10,639
 
10,639 – 2/20
 
 
 
 
 
18,000
 
18,000 – 2/15
 
 
 
 





    
 
8,867
 
8,867 – 3/31
 
 
 
 
 
4,500
 
4,500 – 2/20
 
 
 
 





    
 
42,533
 
21,267 – 2/18
 
21,266 – 2/18
 
 
 
3,500
 
3,500 – 3/31
 
 
 
 





    
 
83,000
 
27,667 – 2/17
 
27,667 – 2/17
 
27,666 – 2/18
 
6,200
 
3,100 – 2/18
 
3,100 – 2/18
 
 





    
 
17,395
 
17,395 – 1/1  
 
 
 
 
 
26,500
 
(a
)
 
 
 







(a)These
shares were granted on February 17, 2006 and have a 5-year term, with no more than 1/3 of the award vesting in any one year upon Abbott
reaching a minimum return on equity target, measured at the end of the relevant year. In 2006, Abbott reached its minimum return on equity target and one-third of each of these awards
vested on February 17, 2007.
(b)These
shares were granted on March 27, 2006 and have a 5-year term, with no more than 1/3 of the award vesting in any one year upon Abbott reaching a
minimum return on equity target, measured at the end of the relevant year. In 2006, Abbott reached its minimum return on equity target and one-third of this award will vest on
March 27, 2007. 

26


  

Option Exercises and Stock Vested  

The following table summarizes for each named officer the number of shares the officer acquired on the exercise of stock options and the number of shares the officer acquired on the vesting of stock
awards in 2006: 




 


 
 
Option Awards
 
Stock Awards
 



 


 
 
Name
 
Number of
Shares Acquired
On Exercise (#)
 
Value
Realized
On Exercise ($)
 
Number of
Shares Acquired
On Vesting (#) (1)
 
Value
Realized
On Vesting ($) (1)
 



 



 


M. D. White
 
388,377
 
$
5,439,348
 
61,267
 
$
2,873,538
 



 


R. A. Gonzalez
 
98,875
 
 
851,106
 
15,467
 
 
682,868
 



 


T. C. Freyman
 
65,120
 
 
431,111
 
13,100
 
 
574,965
 



 


W. G. Dempsey
 
38,533
 
 
407,415
 
3,100
 
 
136,865
 



 


H. Liepmann
 
46,678
 
 
433,888
 
11,100
 
 
515,625
 



 


J. M. Leiden
 
801,682
 
 
4,773,750
 
231,400
 
 
10,114,821
(2)



 




(1)As
the result of the spin-off of Hospira, Inc. to shareholders on April 30, 2004, the named officers along with all other Abbott shareholders received a
dividend distribution in the form of shares of common stock of Hospira, Inc. At the time of the spin-off, the named officers held restricted Abbott shares. With respect to those
shares, the dividend they received was in the form of restricted shares of Hospira, Inc. common stock. The totals reflected in the table do not include the number of Hospira shares acquired in
2006 on vesting, or the value received on vesting of those shares. These totals for each of the named officers were as follows: M. D. White: 29,500/$1,259,208;
R. A. Gonzalez: 18,500/$789,673; T. C. Freyman: 4,300/$180,106; W. G. Dempsey: 3,300/$140,861; H. Liepmann: 3,400/$145,129;
and J. M. Leiden: 18,500/$737,410. The named officers have no remaining restricted common shares of Hospira, Inc.
(2)Of
the amounts shown in the table and footnote 1, J. M. Leiden realized $682,868 as the result of normal vesting. Dr. Leiden received the remainder (the unvested
portions of the awards granted in 2002, 2004, and 2005) in exchange for a non-competition agreement running through September 30, 2007 and forfeited the restricted stock and option awards he
was granted in 2006. 

27


  

Pension Benefits  

The named officers participate in two Abbott-sponsored defined benefit pension plans: the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan, a tax-qualified pension plan; and the Abbott
Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan, a nonqualified supplemental pension plan. Abbott has adopted the Supplemental Pension Plan to provide the portion of the Annuity Retirement Plan benefit that
cannot be paid from the Annuity Retirement Plan due to the pay and benefit amount limitations set by the Internal Revenue Code. The Supplemental Pension Plan also includes a benefit feature Abbott
uses to attract officers who are at the mid-point of their career. This feature provides an additional benefit that is most valuable to officers who are mid-career hires and is
less valuable to officers who have spent most of their career at Abbott. Except as provided in Abbott's change in control agreements, Abbott does not have a policy granting extra years of credited
service under the plans. 
Abbott
calculates the present values shown on the table using: (i) a 5.95% discount rate, the same discount rate it uses for FAS 87 calculations for financial reporting purposes; and
(ii) each plan's normal retirement age (age 62 for the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan and age 60 for officers under the Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan). The present
values shown in the table reflect postretirement mortality, based on the FAS 87 assumption (the RP2000 Combined Healthy table), but do not include a factor for preretirement termination,
mortality, or disability. 
The
compensation considered in determining the pensions payable to the named officers is the compensation shown in the "Salary" and "Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation" columns of the
Summary Compensation Table on page 17. 
Annuity Retirement Plan  

The Annuity Retirement Plan covers most employees in the United States, age 21 or older and provides participants with a life annuity benefit at normal retirement equal to A plus the greater of B or C
below. 

A.1.10%
of 5-year final average earnings multiplied by years of benefit service after 2003.
B.1.65%
of 5-year final average earnings multiplied by years of benefit service prior to 2004 (up to 20); plus

1.50%
of 5-year final average earnings multiplied by years of benefit service prior to 2004 in excess of 20 (but no more than 15 additional years); less
0.50%
of the lesser of 3-year final average earnings (but not more than the social security wage base in any year) or the social security covered compensation level multiplied by years of
benefit service. 
C.1.10%
of 5-year final average earnings multiplied by years of benefit service prior to 2004. 
The
benefit for service prior to 2004 (B or C above) is reduced for the cost of preretirement surviving spouse benefit protection. The reduction is calculated using formulas based on age and
employment status during the period in which coverage was in effect. 
Final
average earnings are the average of the 60 highest-paid consecutive calendar months of compensation out of the last 120 months worked. The Annuity Retirement Plan covers
earnings up to the limit imposed by Internal Revenue Code section 401(a)(17) and provides for a maximum of 35 years of benefit service. 
Participants
become fully vested in their pension benefit upon the completion of five years of service. The benefit is payable on an unreduced basis at age 65. Employees hired after 2003 who terminate
prior to age 55 with at least 10 years of service may choose to commence their benefits on an actuarially reduced basis as early as age 55. Employees hired prior to 2004 who terminate prior to
age 50 with at least 10 years of service may choose to commence their benefits on an actuarially reduced basis as early as age 50. Employees hired prior to 2004 who terminate prior to age 50
with less than 10 years of service may choose to commence their benefits on an actuarially reduced basis as early as age 55. 
The
Annuity Retirement Plan offers several optional forms of payment, including certain and life annuities, joint and survivor annuities, and level income annuities. The benefit paid under any of
these options is actuarially equivalent to the life annuity benefit produced by the formula described above. 
Employees
who retire from Abbott prior to their normal retirement age may receive subsidized early retirement benefits. Employees hired after 2003 are eligible for early retirement at age 55 with
10 years of service. Employees hired prior to 2004 are eligible for early retirement at age 50 with 10 years of service or age 55 if the employee's age plus years of benefit service
total 70 or more. Each of the named officers is eligible for early retirement benefits under the plan. 
The
subsidized early retirement reductions applied to the benefit payable for service after 2003 (A above) depend upon the participant's age at retirement. If the participant retires after reaching
age 55, the benefit is reduced 5 percent per year for each year that payments are made before age 62. If the participant retires after reaching age 50 but prior to reaching age 55, the benefit
is actuarially reduced from age 65. 
The
early retirement reductions applied to the benefit payable for service prior to 2004 (B and C above) depend upon age and service at retirement: 

•In
general, the 5-year final average earnings portions of the benefit are reduced 3 percent per year for each year that payments are made before age 62
and the 3-year final average earnings portion of the benefit is reduced 5 percent per year for each year that payments are made before age 62. 

28

 

•Employees
who participated in the plan before age 36 may elect "Special Retirement" on the last day of any month after reaching age 55 with age plus Seniority Service points
of at least 94 or "Early Special Retirement" on the last day of any month after reaching age 55 provided their age plus Seniority Service points would reach at least 94 before age 65. Seniority
service includes periods of employment prior to attaining the minimum age required to participate in the plan. If Special Retirement or Early Special Retirement applies, seniority service is used in
place of benefit service in the formulas. The 5-year final average earnings portions of the benefit in B above are reduced 12/3 percent for each year between ages 59 and 62
plus 21/2 percent for each year between ages 55 and 59. The 3-year final average earnings portion of the benefit is reduced 5 percent per year for each year that
payments are made before age 62. Benefit C is payable on an unreduced basis at Special Retirement and is reduced 3 percent per year for each year that payments are made before age 62, if Early
Special Retirement applies. 
Supplemental Pension Plan  

With the following exceptions, the provisions of the Supplemental Pension Plan are the same as those of the Annuity Retirement Plan: 

•Officers'
5-year final average earnings are calculated using the average of the 5 highest years of base earnings and the 5 highest years of bonus payments, such
as payments under Abbott's non-equity incentive plans.
•The
Annuity Retirement Plan does not include amounts deferred or payments received under the Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan in its calculation of a
participant's final average earnings. To preserve the pension benefits of Deferred Compensation Plan participants, the Supplemental Pension Plan includes amounts deferred by a participant under the
Deferred Compensation Plan in its calculation of final average earnings. Following their election as an officer, Abbott officers are no longer eligible to defer compensation under the Deferred
Compensation Plan.
•In
addition to the benefits outlined above for the Annuity Retirement Plan, officers are eligible for a benefit equal to 0.6% of 5-year final average earnings
for each year of service for each of the first 20 years of service occurring after the participant attains age 35. The benefit is further limited by the maximum percentage allowed under the
Annuity Retirement Plan under that plan's benefit formulas (A, B and C above). The portion of this additional officer benefit attributable to service prior to 2004 is reduced 3 percent per year
for each year that payments are made before age 60. The portion attributable to service after 2003 is reduced 5 percent per year for each year that payments are made before age 60 if the
participant is at least age 55 at early retirement. If the participant is under age 55 at retirement, the portion attributable to service after 2003 is actuarially reduced from age 65.
•The
Supplemental Pension Plan provides early retirement benefits similar to those provided under the Annuity Retirement Plan. The benefits provided to officers under the
Supplemental Pension Plan are not, however, reduced for the period between age 60 and age 62, unless the benefit is being actuarially reduced from age 65. Each of the named officers is eligible for
early retirement benefits under the plan.
•Pensions
accrued under the Supplemental Pension Plan may be funded through individual trusts established on behalf of the officers who participate in the plan. Vested plan
benefits accrued through December 31, 2005, to the extent not previously funded, were distributed to the participants' individual trusts and included in the participants' income in 2006. 
Benefits
payable under the Supplemental Pension Plan are offset by the benefits payable from the Annuity Retirement Plan. Abbott pays the officer's Supplemental Pension Plan benefits to the extent
assets held in the officer's trust are insufficient. 

29



  

Pension Benefits  




 


Name
 
Plan Name
 
Number Of Years
Credited Service
 
Present Value of
Accumulated Benefit
($)
 
Payments During
Last Fiscal Year
($)
 



 



M. D. White
 
Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan
 
22
 
$
360,882
 
$
0
 


 
 

 


 
 
Abbott Laboratories Supplemental
Pension Plan
 
22
 
 
10,695,662
 
 
884,962
(1)



 



R. A. Gonzalez
 
Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan
 
26
 
 
455,462
 
 
0
 


 
 

 


 
 
Abbott Laboratories Supplemental
Pension Plan
 
26
 
 
5,954,424
 
 
618,231
(1)



 



T. C. Freyman
 
Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan
 
27
 
 
458,471
 
 
0
 


 
 

 


 
 
Abbott Laboratories Supplemental
Pension Plan
 
27
 
 
4,039,571
 
 
597,619
(1)



 



W. G. Dempsey
 
Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan
 
24
 
 
513,833
 
 
0
 


 
 

 


 
 
Abbott Laboratories Supplemental
Pension Plan
 
24
 
 
4,029,022
 
 
239,356
(1)



 



H. Liepmann
 
Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan
 
20
 
 
410,022
 
 
0
 


 
 

 


 
 
Abbott Laboratories Supplemental
Pension Plan
 
20
 
 
2,303,288
 
 
475,108
(1)



 



J. M. Leiden
 
Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan
 
5
 
 
66,678
 
 
0
 


 
 

 


 
 
Abbott Laboratories Supplemental
Pension Plan
 
5
 
 
801,822
 
 
75,339
(1)



 




(1)Consistent
with the distribution requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and its proposed regulations, vested Supplemental Pension Plan benefits, to the extent not
previously funded, were distributed to the participants' individual grantor trusts and included in the participants' income. Amounts held in the officer's individual trust offset Abbott's obligations
to the officer under the plan. During 2006, the amounts shown, less applicable tax withholdings, were deposited in such individual trusts established by the named officers. 

30


  

Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change-in Control  
Potential Payments Upon Termination – Generally  

Abbott does not have employment agreements with the named officers. 
The
following summarizes the payments that the named officers would have received if their employment had terminated on December 31, 2006. If the officer's employment had terminated due to
death or disability, the officer's unvested stock options and restricted shares would have vested on December 31, 2006 with values as set forth below in the section captioned, "Potential
Payments Upon Change in Control." If the termination of employment was due to disability, then the named officers also would have received, in addition to Abbott's standard disability benefits, a
monthly long-term disability benefit in the amount of $180,146 for M. D. White, $85,100 for R. A. Gonzalez, $68,850 for T. C. Freyman, $55,850 for W. G.
Dempsey, and $50,642 for H. Liepmann. This long-term disability benefit would continue for up to 18 months following termination of employment. It ends if the officer
retires, recovers, dies or ceases to meet eligibility criteria. Finally, the following one-time deposits would have been made under the Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan for each named
officer, respectively, M. D. White, $2,338,195, R. A. Gonzalez, $1,690,119, T. C. Freyman, $1,961,484, W. G. Dempsey $1,210,662, and H. Liepmann $819,653. As each of
the named officers who was employed by Abbott on December 31, 2006 is eligible to retire, each of these officers would be eligible to begin to receive the pension benefits described on pages 28
to 30. 
Potential Payments Upon Change in Control  

On February 16, 2007 Messrs. White, Gonzalez and Freyman informed the Compensation Committee that they would voluntarily terminate their individual CIC agreements with the Company,
effective February 28, 2007. Abbott has change in control arrangements with the rest of its management team, in the form of change in control agreements for Abbott officers and a change in
control plan for other key management personnel. The agreements with Messrs. Dempsey and Liepmann are described below. 
The
agreements with Messrs. Dempsey and Liepmann continue in effect until December 31, 2009, and at the end of each year will automatically be extended through the third year thereafter
unless Abbott notifies the officer that the agreement will not be extended. The agreements also automatically extend for two years following any change in control (as defined in the agreements) that
occurs while they are in effect. The agreements provide that if the officer is terminated other than for cause or permanent disability or if the officer elects to terminate employment for good reason
(as defined in the agreements) during a potential change in control (as defined in the agreements) or within two years following a change in control of Abbott (including termination by the officer for
any reason during the thirty-day window period which begins six months after the date of a change in control), the officer is entitled to receive a lump sum payment equal to three times
the officer's annual salary and bonus (assuming for this purpose that all target performance goals have been achieved or, if higher, based on the average bonus for the last three years), plus any
unpaid bonus owing for any completed performance period and the pro rata bonus for any current bonus period (based on the highest of the bonus assuming achievement of target performance, the average
bonus for the past three years, or in the case of the unpaid bonus for any completed performance period, the actual bonus earned). Bonus payments include payments made under the Performance Incentive
Plan. The officer will also receive up to three years of additional employee benefits (including welfare benefits, outplacement services and tax and financial counseling for three years and the value
of three more years of pension accruals), and payment of any excise taxes imposed under section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code and other related taxes for which the officer is responsible as
a result of receiving payments and benefits in connection with a change in control. The agreements also limit the conduct for which awards under Abbott's incentive stock programs can be terminated and
generally permit options to remain exercisable for the remainder of their term. Independent compensation consultants confirm that the level of payments provided under the agreements is consistent with
current market practice. 
If
a change in control had occurred on December 31, 2006, immediately followed by one of the covered circumstances described above, Messrs. Dempsey and Liepmann would have been entitled
to receive the following payments and benefits under the change in control agreements: 

•Cash
termination payments: W. G. Dempsey, $5,199,000; and, H. Liepmann, $4,578,000.
•Additional
Supplemental Pension Plan benefits: W. G. Dempsey, $2,598,415; and, H. Liepmann, $4,326,228.
•Welfare
and fringe benefits: W. G. Dempsey, $102,500; and, H. Liepmann, $102,500.
•Excise
tax reimbursements: H. Liepmann, $2,843,881. To determine the amount of this reimbursement, Abbott has assumed that the named officer pays taxes at the highest
marginal tax rate and that the price of Abbott shares was equal to the closing price of an Abbott common share on December 31, 2006. 
Under
the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, upon a change in control, all outstanding stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units vest, including performance-based
restricted shares which are deemed earned in full. If a change in control had occurred on December 31, 2006: 

•Mr. White
would have vested (1) in an aggregate of 1,184,124 unvested stock options with a value of $4,235,383, and (2) in an aggregate of 436,533
restricted shares with a value equal to $21,263,522. 

31

 

•Mr. Gonzalez
would have vested (1) in an aggregate of 614,564 unvested stock options with a value of $2,640,661, and (2) in an aggregate of 340,933
restricted shares with a value equal to $16,606,846.
•Mr. Freyman
would have vested (1) in an aggregate of 145,040 unvested stock options with a value of $628,234, and (2) in an aggregate of 67,800
restricted shares with a value equal to $3,302,538.
•Mr. Dempsey
would have vested (1) in an aggregate of 149,176 unvested stock options with a value of $628,441, and (2) in an aggregate of 85,700
restricted shares with a value equal to $4,174,447.
•Mr. Liepmann
would have vested (1) in an aggregate of 162,434 unvested stock options with a value of $750,624, and (2) in an aggregate of 58,700
restricted shares with a value equal to $2,859,277. 
The
value of stock options shown is based on the excess of the closing price of a share of Abbott common stock on December 31, 2006 over the exercise price of such options, multiplied by the
number of unvested stock options held by the named officer. The value of restricted shares shown is determined by multiplying the number of restricted shares that would vest as of December 31,
2006 and the closing price of a share of Abbott common stock on December 31, 2006. 

32



  

Approval Process for Related Person Transactions  

It is Abbott's policy that the nominations and governance committee review, approve or ratify any transaction in which Abbott participates and in which any related person has a direct or indirect
material interest if such transaction involves or is expected to involve payments of $120,000 or more in the aggregate per fiscal year. Related person transactions requiring review by the nominations
and governance committee pursuant to this policy are identified in: 

•questionnaires
annually distributed to Abbott's directors and officers,
•certifications
submitted annually by Abbott officers related to their compliance with Abbott's Code of Business Conduct, or
•communications
made directly by the related person to the chief financial officer or general counsel. 
In
determining whether to approve or ratify a related person transaction, the nominations and governance committee will consider the following items, among others: 

•the
related person's relationship to Abbott and interest in the transaction;
•the
material facts of the transaction, including the aggregate value of such transaction or, in the case of indebtedness, the amount of principal involved;
•the
benefits to Abbott of the transaction;
•if
applicable, the availability of other sources of comparable products or services;
•an
assessment of whether the transaction is on terms that are comparable to the terms available to an unrelated third party or to employees generally;
•whether
a transaction has the potential to impair director independence; and
•whether
the transaction constitutes a conflict of interest. 
This
process is included in the nominations and governance committee's written charter, which is available on the corporate governance section of Abbott's investor relations Web Site
(www.abbottinvestor.com). Abbott did not have any related person transactions in 2006 requiring nominations and governance committee approval under this policy. 

33

 


Ratification of Deloitte & Touche LLP as Auditors (Item 2 on Proxy Card)  

Abbott's bylaws provide that the audit committee shall appoint annually a firm of independent registered public accountants to serve as auditors. In October 2006, the audit committee appointed
Deloitte & Touche LLP to act as auditors for 2007. Deloitte & Touche LLP has served as Abbott's auditors since 2002. 
Although
the audit committee has sole authority to appoint auditors, it would like to know the opinion of the shareholders regarding its appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors
for 2007. For this reason, shareholders are being asked to ratify this appointment. If the shareholders do not ratify the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors for 2007, the
audit committee will take that fact into consideration, but may, nevertheless, continue to retain Deloitte & Touche LLP. 
The board of directors recommends a vote FOR ratification of the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors for 2007.  
Representatives of Deloitte & Touche LLP are expected to be present at the Annual Meeting and will be given the opportunity to make a statement if they desire to
do so. They will also be available to respond to appropriate questions. 
Audit Fees and Non-Audit Fees  

The following table presents fees for professional audit services by Deloitte & Touche LLP, the member firms of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, and their respective affiliates ("the Deloitte
Entities") for the audit of Abbott's annual financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, and fees billed for other services rendered by the Deloitte
Entities during these periods. 



 
 
2006
 
2005


Audit fees:(1)
 
$
13,966,000
 
$
11,875,000


Audit related fees:(2)
 
 
36,000
 
 
143,000


Tax fees:(3)
 
 
1,697,000
 
 
2,563,000


All other fees:(4)
 
 
—
 
 
—


 
 

 



Total
 
$
15,699,000
 
$
14,581,000




(1)The
Deloitte Entities billed or will bill Abbott for professional services rendered for: the audit of Abbott's annual financial statements, the review of Abbott's financial statements
included in Abbott's quarterly reports, and the audits of Abbott's internal control over financial reporting and management's assessment thereof, statutory and subsidiary audits, the review of
documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and certain accounting consultations in connection with the audits.
(2)Audit
related fees include: accounting consultations and audits in connection with proposed acquisitions and divestitures, and consultations related to Abbott's internal control over
financial reporting.
(3)Tax
fees consist principally of professional services rendered by the Deloitte Entities for tax compliance and tax planning and advice including assistance with tax audits and
appeals, and tax advice related to mergers and acquisitions.
(4)No
fees for other service were incurred in 2006 or 2005. 
Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Auditor  

The audit committee has established policies and procedures to pre-approve all audit and permissible non-audit services performed by the Deloitte Entities. 
Prior
to engagement of the independent registered public accounting firm for the next year's audit, management will submit a schedule of all proposed services expected to be rendered during that year
for each of four categories of services to the audit committee for approval. 
Prior
to engagement, the audit committee pre-approves these services by category of service. The fees are budgeted and the audit committee requires the independent registered public
accounting firm and management to report actual fees versus the budget periodically by category of service. During the year, circumstances may arise when it may become necessary to engage the
independent registered public accounting firm for additional services not contemplated in the original pre-approval. In those instances, the audit committee requires specific
pre-approval before engaging the independent registered public accounting firm. 
The
audit committee may delegate pre-approval authority to one or more of its members. The member to whom such authority is delegated must report any pre-approval decisions to
the audit committee at its next scheduled meeting. 

34

 


Report of the Audit Committee  

Management is responsible for Abbott's internal controls and the financial reporting process. The independent registered public accounting firm is responsible for performing an audit of the
consolidated financial statements and expressing an opinion on the conformity of those financial statements with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, as well as
expressing an opinion on (i) management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and (ii) the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting. The audit committee reviews these processes on behalf of the board of directors. In this context, the committee has reviewed and discussed the audited financial statements contained in the
2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K with Abbott's management and its independent registered public accounting firm. 
The
committee has discussed with the independent registered public accounting firm the matters required to be discussed by the Statement on Auditing Standards No. 61
(Communication with Audit Committees), as amended. 
The
committee has received the written disclosures and the letter from the independent registered public accounting firm required by Independence Standards Board Standard No. 1
(Independence Discussions with Audit Committees), as amended, and has discussed with the independent registered public accounting firm their
independence. The committee has also considered whether the provision of the services described on page 34 under the caption "Audit Fees and Non-Audit Fees" is compatible with maintaining the
independence of the independent registered public accounting firm. 
Based
on the review and discussions referred to above, the committee recommended to the Board of Directors that the audited financial statements be included in Abbott's Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Audit Committee 
J. M. Greenberg, chairman, R. S. Austin, D. A. L. Owen, and W. D. Smithburg 

Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  

Abbott believes that during 2006 its officers and directors complied with all filing requirements under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

Shareholder Proposals  

Two shareholder proposals have been received. Abbott is advised that the proposals will be presented for action at the Annual Meeting. The proposed resolutions and the statements made in support
thereof are presented below. 
The board of directors recommends that you vote AGAINST the proposals.  

35



  

Shareholder Proposal on Advisory Vote (Item 3 on Proxy Card)  

The Unitarian Universalist Association of Congregations, 25 Beacon Street, Boston, MA 02108, owner of 500 Abbott common shares, has informed Abbott that it intends to present the following
proposal at the meeting. 
Resolved, that shareholders of Abbott Laboratories urge the board of directors to adopt a policy that Company shareholders be given the opportunity at
each annual meeting of shareholders to vote on an advisory resolution, to be proposed by Abbott Laboratories' management, to ratify the compensation of the named executive officers ("NEOs") set forth
in the proxy statement's Summary Compensation Table (the "SCT") and the accompanying narrative disclosure of material factors provided to understand the SCT (but not the Compensation Discussion and
Analysis). The proposal submitted to shareholders should make clear that the vote is non-binding and would not affect any compensation paid or awarded to any NEO. 

Proponent's Statement in Support of Shareholder Proposal  

Investors are increasingly concerned about mushrooming executive compensation which sometimes appears to be insufficiently aligned with the creation of shareholder value. Media and government focus on
back dating of stock options has increased investor concern. This proposed reform can help rebuild investor confidence. 
The
SEC has created a new rule, with record support from investors, requiring companies to disclose additional information about compensation and perquisites for top executives. The rule goes into
effect this year. In establishing the rule the SEC has made it clear that it is the role of market forces, not the SEC, to provide checks and balances on compensation practices. 
We
believe that existing U.S. corporate governance arrangements, including SEC rules and stock exchange listing standards, do not provide shareholders with enough mechanisms for providing input to
boards on senior executive compensation. In contrast to U.S. practices, in the United Kingdom, public companies allow shareholders to cast an advisory vote on the "directors' remuneration report,"
which discloses executive compensation. Such a vote isn't binding, but gives shareholders a clear voice that could help shape senior executive compensation. 
Currently
U.S. stock exchange listing standards require shareholder approval of equity-based compensation plans; those plans, however, set general parameters and accord the compensation committee
substantial discretion in making awards and establishing performance thresholds for a particular year. Shareholders do not have any mechanism for providing ongoing feedback on the application of those
general standards to individual pay packages. (See Lucian Bebchuk & Jesse Fried, Pay Without Performance 49 (2004)) 
Similarly,
performance criteria submitted for shareholder approval to allow a company to deduct compensation in excess of $1 million are broad and do not constrain compensation committees in
setting performance targets for particular senior executives. Withholding votes from compensation committee members who are standing for reelection is a blunt and insufficient instrument for
registering dissatisfaction with the way in which the committee has administered compensation plans and policies in the previous year. 
Accordingly,
we urge Abbott Laboratories' board to allow shareholders to express their opinion about senior executive compensation at Abbott Laboratories by establishing an annual referendum process.
The results of such a vote would, we think, provide the board and management with useful information about whether shareholders view the company's senior executive compensation, as reported each year,
are in shareholders' best interests. 

Board of Directors' Statement in Opposition to the Shareholder Proposal on Advisory Vote
(Item 3 on Proxy Card)  

The proponents' proposal to provide shareholders with an advisory vote on compensation determinations offers no incremental benefit to shareholders and undermines the fundamental principle of
corporate governance. 
The
Company is governed for the benefit of shareholders by an independent Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is responsible for all aspects of governance of the Company, including compensation
determinations for executives as well as all employees of the Company. Abbott is recognized world wide as being an excellent employer and all employees of the Company are appropriately compensated for
their efforts. 
Executive
compensation determinations, in particular, are made by an independent committee of the Board, after consideration of the strategic and financial objectives of the Company, the performance
of the individuals and the relevant performance and comparative market data. Shareholder interests are best represented through this process. 
The
Compensation Committee has determined that an executive compensation program designed around various elements of compensation, including base salaries, incentive bonuses, and various
performance-based equity awards, best meets its dual objectives of retaining highly talented executives and aligning compensation with shareholder returns. The Committee makes extensive use of
competitive data on both peer companies and other high performing companies in determining the amount of annual and long-term compensation. 
Additionally,
the Committee also considers an executive's performance against specific quantitative and qualitative objectives, 

36

 


which are established on an annual basis and are directly related to the delivery of the financial growth of the Company and creation of shareholder value. The Committee also retains highly
knowledgeable and qualified consultants to provide expert advice on appropriate compensation variables and levels. 
The
advisory vote called for by the shareholder proponents will not enhance the Company's governance practices, improve accountability or communication with shareholders. The Company has established
procedures to provide shareholders a means to communicate directly with Board and Committee members on any issue, including executive compensation. Additionally, the Company also has sufficient
accountability mechanisms through, among others, its majority voting requirements to ensure that shareholders opinions are heard. 
The
responsibility for determining the appropriate executive compensation levels and programs properly resides with an independent Board of Directors and Compensation Committee. Based upon the
foregoing, the advisory vote proposed by the shareholder proponent is not in the best interest of shareholders. 
The board of directors recommends that you vote AGAINST the proposal.  

37


  

Shareholder Proposal on the Roles of Chair and CEO (Item 4 on Proxy Card)  

Catholic Healthcare West, 185 Berry Street, Suite 300, San Francisco, California 94107-1739, and 16 other proponents have informed Abbott that they intend to present the
following proposal at the meeting. Abbott will provide the proponents' names and addresses to any shareholder who requests that information and, if provided by a proponent to Abbott, the number of
Abbott common shares held by that proponent. 
Resolved:
The shareholders of Abbott Laboratories (the "Company") request the Board of Directors establish a policy of, whenever possible, separating the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
so that an independent director who has not served as an executive officer of the Company serves as Chair of the Board of Directors. 
This
proposal shall not apply to the extent that complying would necessarily breach any contractual obligations in effect at the time of the 2007 shareholder meeting. 

Proponent's Statement in Support of Shareholder Proposal  

We believe in the principle of the separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. This is a basic element of sound corporate governance practice. 
We
believe an independent Board Chair – separated from the CEO – is the preferable form of corporate governance. The primary purpose of the Board of Directors is
to protect shareholder's interests by providing independent oversight of management and the CEO. The Board gives strategic direction and guidance to our Company. 
The
Board will likely accomplish both roles more effectively by separating the roles of Chair and CEO. An independent Chair will enhance investor confidence in our Company and strengthen the integrity
of the Board of Directors. 
A
number of respected institutions recommend such separation. CalPER's Corporate Core Principles and Guidelines state: "the independence of a majority of the Board is not enough" and that "the
leadership of the board must embrace independence, and it must ultimately change the way in which directors interact with management." 
An
independent board structure will also help the board address complex policy issues facing our company, foremost among them the crisis in access to pharmaceutical products. 
Millions
of Americans and others around the world have limited or no access to our company's life-saving medicines. We believe an independent Chair and vigorous Board will bring greater
focus to this ethical imperative, and be better able to forge solutions to address this crisis. 
The
current business model of the pharmaceutical sector is undergoing significant challenges. The industry has generated substantial revenue from American purchasers, who pay higher prices for
medicines than those in other developed countries. Pressure on drug pricing and dependence on this business model may impact our company's long-term value. We believe independent Board
leadership will better position our company to respond to these enduring challenges. 
A
similar resolution voted on in 2006 was supported by 31.19% of shareholders. 
In
order to ensure that our Board can provide the proper strategic direction for our Company with independence and accountability, we urge a vote FOR this resolution. 

Board of Directors' Statement in Opposition to the Shareholder Proposal on the Roles of Chair and CEO (Item 4 on Proxy Card)  

It is in the best interest of the Company's shareholders to allow the Board sufficient flexibility to determine who should serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors. This determination is made by an
independent Board based upon the circumstances and individuals available at any particular point in time. 
At
this point in time, the Board has determined that the chief executive officer, who has primary responsibility for managing the Company day-to-day, is in the best position to
chair the Board and to ensure that key business issues and other important matters are brought to the Board's attention. 
Abbott's
governance profile ensures that the appropriate level of oversight and independence is applied to all Board decisions. First, all but two of Abbott's twelve directors are independent, and the
members of each of the key committees, Audit, Compensation, Nominations and Governance and Public Policy, are independent. Second, a Lead Director has been designated by and from the independent Board
members. According to a recent publication by Institutional Shareholder Services ("ISS"), there is a clear preference for appointing a lead director in the U.S., rather than a
non-executive chair. In a 2006 survey of S&P companies, approximately 57% of companies had a lead or presiding director, up from 52% in the prior year. Only 12% of all chairmen were
classified as independent, up just 1% from the prior year. 
The
Lead Director appointed by the Board facilitates communications with the Board and presides over regularly conducted executive sessions and sessions where the chairman is not present. The Lead
Director reviews and approves matters, such as agenda items, schedule sufficiency, and, where appropriate, information provided to other Board members. Any director, however, may suggest agenda items
and may raise matters at 

38

 


meetings. Third, the Board and each of its Committees have complete access to management and the authority to retain independent advisors, as they deem appropriate. Fourth, the independent directors
review the performance of the CEO annually. 
The
Company also has established independence standards, governance guidelines and a published procedure for shareholders and other third parties to communicate with Board members. This information is
posted and available on the Company Web site, www.abbott.com. 
In
light of the strong oversight mechanisms already in place, there is no reason to alter the current governance profile of the Company. 
Contrary
to the proponent's assertion, there is no connection between the policy issues relating to access to medicines and the Company's governance structure. The Company is committed to expanding
access to medicines through a variety of measures, which include both Company-sponsored and industry-sponsored programs to deliver needed medicines to patients. The Board is aware of and supports the
Company's many efforts in addressing the need for access to medicines. The assertion that a governance change would better address the access issue is unfounded. 
The
current structure, in which the Board retains the flexibility to allocate the responsibilities of the offices of chairman and chief executive officer to one individual, supports the Board's
exercise of its oversight responsibilities and is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. 
The board of directors recommends that you vote AGAINST the proposal.  

Date for Receipt of Shareholder Proposals for the 2008 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement  

Shareholder proposals for presentation at the 2008 Annual Meeting must be received by Abbott no later than November 20, 2007 and must otherwise comply with the applicable requirements of the
Securities and Exchange Commission to be considered for inclusion in the proxy statement and proxy for the 2008 meeting. 

39


  

Procedure for Recommendation and Nomination of Directors and Transaction of Business at Annual Meeting  

A shareholder may recommend persons as potential nominees for director by submitting the names of such persons in writing to the chairman of the nominations and governance committee or the secretary
of Abbott. Recommendations should be accompanied by a statement of qualifications and confirmation of the person's willingness to serve. A nominee who is recommended by a shareholder following these
procedures will receive the same consideration as other comparably qualified nominees. 
A
shareholder entitled to vote for the election of directors at an Annual Meeting and who is a shareholder of record on: 

•the
record date for that Annual Meeting,
•the
date the shareholder provides timely notice to Abbott, and
•the
date of the Annual Meeting, 

may
directly nominate persons for director by providing proper timely written notice to the secretary of Abbott. 
That
notice must include the name, age, business address, residence address and principal occupation or employment of the nominee, the class and number of shares of Abbott owned by the nominee and any
other information relating to the nominee that is required to be disclosed in solicitations for proxies pursuant to the 
Securities
Exchange Act. In addition, the notice must include the name and record address of the nominating shareholder and the class and number of shares of Abbott owned by the nominating
shareholder. 
A
shareholder of record on the record date for an Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the date the shareholder provides timely notice to Abbott and on the date of the Annual Meeting of Shareholders may
properly bring business before the Annual Meeting by providing timely written notice to the secretary of Abbott. For each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before the Annual Meeting, the notice
must include a brief description of the business to be discussed, the reasons for conducting such business at the Annual Meeting, the name and record address of the shareholder proposing such
business, the class and number of shares of Abbott owned by the shareholder and any material interest of the shareholder in such business. 
To
be timely, written notice either to directly nominate persons for director or to bring business properly before the Annual Meeting must be received at Abbott's principal executive offices not less
than ninety days and not more than one hundred twenty days prior to the anniversary date of the preceding Annual Meeting. If the Annual Meeting is called for a date that is not within twenty five days
before or after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder must be received not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such notice of the date of the Annual
Meeting was mailed or made public in a press release or in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, whichever occurs first. 

General  

It is important that proxies be returned promptly. Shareholders are urged, regardless of the number of shares owned, to vote their shares. Most of Abbott's shareholders may vote their shares by
telephone or the Internet. Shareholders who wish to vote by mail should sign and return their proxy card in the enclosed business reply envelope. Shareholders who vote by telephone or the Internet do
not need to return their proxy card. 
The
Annual Meeting will be held at Abbott's headquarters, 100 Abbott Park Road, located at the intersection of Route 137 and Waukegan Road, Lake County, Illinois. Admission to the
meeting will be by admission card only. A shareholder planning to attend the meeting should promptly complete and return the reservation form. Reservation forms must be received before
April 20, 2007. An admission card admits only one person. 



 
By order of the board of directors.
 



 

LAURA J. SCHUMACHER SECRETARY

 




40


  




 
EXHIBIT A



DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE STANDARD  

No director qualifies as "independent" unless the Board affirmatively determines that the director has no material relationship with Abbott or its subsidiaries (either directly or as a partner,
shareholder or officer of an organization that has a relationship with Abbott or any of its subsidiaries). In making this determination, the Board shall consider all relevant facts and circumstances,
including the following standards: 

•A
director is not independent if the director is, or has been within the last three years, an employee of Abbott or its subsidiaries, or an immediate family member is, or
has been within the last three years, an executive officer of Abbott or its subsidiaries.
•A
director is not independent if the director has received, or has an immediate family member who has received, during any twelve-month period within the last three years,
more than $100,000 in direct compensation from Abbott or its subsidiaries, other than director and committee fees and pension or other forms of deferred compensation for prior service (provided such
compensation is not contingent in any way on continued service), and other than amounts received by an immediate family member for service as an employee (other than an executive officer).
•A
director is not independent if (A) the director or an immediate family member is a current partner of a firm that is Abbott's internal or external auditor;
(B) the director is a current employee of such a firm; (C) the director has an immediate family member who is a current employee of such a firm and who participates in the firm's audit,
assurance or tax compliance (but not tax planning) practice; or (D) the director or an immediate family member was within the last three years (but is no longer) a partner or employee of such a
firm and personally worked on Abbott or its subsidiaries' audit within that time.
•A
director is not independent if the director or an immediate family member is, or has been within the last three years, employed as an executive officer of another company
where any of the present executive officers of Abbott or its subsidiaries at the same time serves or served on that company's compensation committee.
•A
director is not independent if the director is a current employee, or an immediate family member is a current executive officer, of a company that has made payments to, or
received payments from, Abbott or its subsidiaries for property or services in an amount which, in any of the last three fiscal years, exceeds the greater of $1 million, or 2% of such other
company's consolidated gross revenues.
•A
director is not independent if the director is an executive officer of a charitable organization that received charitable contributions (other than matching contributions)
from Abbott and its subsidiaries in the preceding fiscal year that are in excess of the greater of $1 million or 2% of such charitable organization's consolidated gross revenues. 

A-1


Abbott Laboratories
100 Abbott Park Road
Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6400 U.S.A.
Notice of Annual Meeting
of Shareholders
and Proxy Statement  
 Meeting Date
April 27, 2007  

YOUR VOTE IS IMPORTANT!  Please sign and promptly return your proxy 
in the enclosed envelope or vote your 
shares by telephone or using the Internet. 


 Reservation Form for Annual Meeting  
I am a shareholder of Abbott Laboratories and plan to attend the Annual 
Meeting to be held at Abbott's headquarters, 100 Abbott Park Road, 
located at the intersection of Route 137 and Waukegan Road, Lake 
County, Illinois at 9:00 a.m. on Friday, April 27, 2007. 
Please
send me an admission card for each of the following persons. 



Name
 
 
 
Name
 
 



 



Please print name of shareholder
 
Please print name of guest


Address
 

 
 

Address
 

 



 




City
 

 
 

City
 

 



 




State
 

Zip Code
 

State
 

Zip Code



 

 

 




Phone Number(        )
                                         
            
 

Phone Number (        )
                                         
            



 
 

 
 

 
 

 





If you plan to attend the meeting, please complete and return the Reservation Form directly to Abbott Laboratories, Annual Meeting Ticket Requests,
D-0383 AP6D, 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6048. Due to space limitations, Reservation Forms must be received before April 20, 2007. An admission
card, along with a form of photo identification, admits one person. A shareholder may request two admission cards.

To avoid a delay in the receipt of your admission card, do not return this form with your proxy card or mail it in the enclosed business envelope.




 
 



 











Using a black ink pen, mark your votes with an X  as shown in
this example. Please do not write outside the designated areas.    ý 






Annual Meeting Proxy Card






IF YOU HAVE NOT VOTED VIA THE INTERNET OR TELEPHONE, FOLD ALONG THE PERFERATION, DETACH AND RETURN THE BOTTOM PORTION IN THE ENCLOSED
ENVELOPE. 

Telephone and Internet Voting Instructions—You can vote by telephone OR Internet! Available 24 hours a day,
7 days a week! 
Instead of mailing your proxy, you may choose one of the two voting methods outlined below to vote your proxy. 




To Vote using the Telephone (within U.S. and Canada)
 
To Vote using Internet



•


•
 

Call toll free 1-800-652-VOTE (8683) in the United States or Canada any time on a touch tone telephone. There is NO CHARGE to you for the call.
Follow the simple instructions provided by the recorded message.
 

•
•
 

Go to the following web site: www.investorvote.com
Enter the information requested on your computer screen and follow the simple instructions.


The Board of Directors recommends
that you vote FOR Items 1 and 2.
 
The Board of Directors recommends that you
vote AGAINST Items 3 and 4. 






1. Election of 13 Directors
 

 

 

 

 


Nominees:
(01) R.S. Austin, (02) W.M. Daley, (03) W.J. Farrell, (04) H.L. Fuller, (05) R.A. Gonzalez, (06) D.A.L. Owen, (07) B. Powell Jr., (08) W.A. Reynolds, (09) R.S. Roberts, (10) S.C. Scott III, (11) W.D. Smithburg, (12) G.F.
Tilton and (13) M.D. White
 
3. Shareholder Proposal-Advisory Vote
For
o
Against
o
Abstain
o


o To Vote FOR All Nominess    o To WITHHOLD Vote From All Nominees
 
4. Shareholder Proposal-The Roles of Chair and CEO

For
o

Against
o

Abstain
o



o For, except vote withheld from the above nominee(s)
  
                                         
                                          
              
 

 

 

 

 






2. Ratification of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors
For
o
Against
o
Abstain
o
 

 



Authorized Signatures—Sign Here—This section must be completed for your
instructions to be executed.  



Each joint tenant should sign; executors, administrators, trustees, etc. should give full title and, where more than one is named, a majority should sign. Please read other side before
signing.


Date (mm/dd/yyyy)—Please print date below.
 
Signature 1—Please keep signature within the box
 
Signature 2—Please keep signature within the box



 

 



    
 
 
 
 



 

 










IF YOU HAVE NOT VOTED VIA THE INTERNET OR TELEPHONE, FOLD ALONG THE PERFERATION, DETACH AND RETURN THE BOTTOM PORTION IN
THE ENCLOSED ENVELOPE. 






Proxy—Abbott Laboratories






SOLICITED ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
The undersigned, revoking previous proxies, acknowledges receipt of the Notice and Proxy Statement dated March 19,
2007, in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories to be held at 9:00 a.m. on April 27, 2007, at the corporation's headquarters, and hereby appoints
MILES D. WHITE and LAURA J. SCHUMACHER, or either of them, proxy for the undersigned, with power of substitution, to represent and vote all shares of the undersigned upon all matters
properly coming before the Annual Meeting or any adjournments thereof. 
If the undersigned is a participant in the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan, then this card also instructs the
plan's co-trustees to vote as specified at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and any adjournments thereof, all shares of Abbott Laboratories held in the undersigned's plan account upon the
matters indicated and in their discretion upon such other matters as may properly come before the meeting. 
INSTRUCTIONS: This proxy when properly executed will be voted in the manner directed herein by the
undersigned shareholder. If no direction is made, this proxy will be voted FOR Items 1 and 2 and AGAINST Items 3 and 4 and in accordance with the judgment of the proxy holders on any
other matters that are properly brought before the meeting.  
(Important—Please sign and date on other side.)  









