
DEF 14A
1
a2196602zdef14a.htm
DEF 14A





 UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549  
 SCHEDULE 14A
Proxy
Statement Pursuant to Section 14(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Amendment No.           ) 



Filed by the Registrant ý


Filed by a Party other than the Registrant o



Check the appropriate box:



o
 

Preliminary Proxy Statement



o
 
Confidential, for Use of the Commission Only (as permitted by Rule 14a-6(e)(2))



ý
 

Definitive Proxy Statement



o
 

Definitive Additional Materials



o
 

Soliciting Material Pursuant to §240.14a-12







 






Abbott Laboratories


 (Name of Registrant as Specified In Its Charter)


 


 (Name of Person(s) Filing Proxy Statement, if other than the Registrant)



Payment of Filing Fee (Check the appropriate box):



ý
 

No fee required.



o
 

Fee computed on table below per Exchange Act Rules 14a-6(i)(1) and 0-11.


 
 
(1)
 
Title of each class of securities to which transaction applies:
        


 
 
(2)
 
Aggregate number of securities to which transaction applies:
        


 
 
(3)
 
Per unit price or other underlying value of transaction computed pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0-11 (set forth the amount on which the filing fee is calculated and state how it was determined):
        


 
 
(4)
 
Proposed maximum aggregate value of transaction:
        


 
 
(5)
 
Total fee paid:
        



o
 

Fee paid previously with preliminary materials.



o
 

Check box if any part of the fee is offset as provided by Exchange Act Rule 0-11(a)(2) and identify the filing for which the offsetting fee was paid previously. Identify the previous filing by registration statement number, or the Form or
Schedule and the date of its filing.



 
 

(1)
 

Amount Previously Paid:
        


 
 
(2)
 
Form, Schedule or Registration Statement No.:
        


 
 
(3)
 
Filing Party:
        


 
 
(4)
 
Date Filed:
        








 







  Abbott Laboratories
100 Abbott Park Road
Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6400 U.S.A.



On the Cover: Humira
 
 


Ritsuko Mamiya, Fukuoka, Japan


    Ritsuko Mamiya is one of the many patients who take Humira to reduce symptoms of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Humira is now
approved for three autoimmune disease indications in Japan, including RA, moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis.
 

 










Your Vote Is Important  
Please sign and promptly return your proxy in the enclosed envelope or vote your shares by telephone or using
the Internet.
Notice of Annual Meeting
of Shareholders
Important Notice Regarding the Availability of Proxy
Materials for the Shareholder Meeting to Be Held on April 23, 2010  

The Annual Meeting of the Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories will be held at Abbott's headquarters, 100 Abbott Park Road, at the intersection of Route 137 and Waukegan Road, Lake County, Illinois, on
Friday, April 23, 2010, at 9:00 a.m. for the following purposes: 


•
To
elect 12 directors to hold office until the next Annual Meeting or until their successors are elected (Item 1 on the proxy card), 
•
To
ratify the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of Abbott for 2010 (Item 2 on the proxy card), and 
•
To
transact such other business as may properly come before the meeting, including consideration of 2 shareholder proposals, if presented at the meeting (Items 3 and 4 on the proxy card). 


 The board of directors recommends that you vote FOR Items 1 and 2 on the proxy card.  
The board of directors recommends that you vote AGAINST Items 3 and 4 on the proxy card.  
The close of business February 24, 2010 has been fixed as the record date for determining the shareholders entitled to receive notice of and to vote at the Annual
Meeting. 
Abbott's 2010 Proxy Statement and 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders are available at
www.abbott.com/proxy. If you are a registered shareholder, you may access your proxy card, by either: 


•
Going
to the following Web site: www.investorvote.com, entering the information requested on your computer screen and then following the simple instructions, or 
•
Calling
(in United States, US territories, and Canada), toll free 1-800-652-VOTE (8683) on a touch tone telephone, and following the simple instructions provided by
the recorded message. 








Admission to the meeting will be by admission card only. If you plan to attend, please complete and return the reservation form on the back cover, and an admission card will be sent to you. Due to space limitations,
reservation forms must be received before April 16, 2010. Each admission card, along with photo identification, admits one person. A shareholder may request two admission cards, but a guest must be accompanied by a shareholder.






By order of the board of directors. 
LAURA
J. SCHUMACHER Secretary  
March 15, 2010 





 Table of Contents  



 
 
Page





Solicitation of Proxies
 
1


Information about the Annual Meeting
 
1


 
Who Can Vote
 
1


 
Cumulative Voting
 
1


 
Voting by Proxy
 
1


 
Revoking a Proxy
 
1


 
Discretionary Voting Authority
 
2


 
Quorum and Vote Required to Approve Each Item on the Proxy
 
2


 
Effect of Broker Non-Votes and Abstentions
 
2


 
Inspectors of Election
 
2


 
Cost of Soliciting Proxies
 
2


 
Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan
 
2


 
Confidential Voting
 
2


Information Concerning Security Ownership
 
3


Information Concerning Nominees for Directors (Item 1 on Proxy Card)
 
3


 
Nominees for Election as Directors
 
4


 
The Board of Directors and its Committees
 
8


 
The Board of Directors
 
8


 
Committees of the Board of Directors
 
8


 
Communicating with the Board of Directors
 
9


 
Corporate Governance Materials
 
9


Director Compensation
 
10


Security Ownership of Executive Officers and Directors
 
12


Executive Compensation
 
13


 
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
 
13


 
Compensation Committee Report
 
16


 
Performance Graph
 
17


 
Summary Compensation Table
 
18


 
Grants of Plan-Based Awards
 
21


 
Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End
 
22


 
Option Exercises and Stock Vested
 
29


 
Pension Benefits
 
30


 
Nonqualified Deferred Compensation
 
33


 
Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control
 
34


Approval Process for Related Person Transactions
 
36


Ratification of Deloitte & Touche LLP as Auditors (Item 2 on Proxy Card)
 
37


Report of the Audit Committee
 
38


Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance
 
38


Shareholder Proposals
 
38


Shareholder Proposal on Advisory Vote (Item 3 on Proxy Card)
 
39


 
Proponents' Statement in Support of Shareholder Proposal
 
39


 
Board of Directors' Statement in Opposition to the Shareholder Proposal
 
39


Shareholder Proposal on Special Shareholder Meetings (Item 4 on Proxy Card)
 
41


 
Proponent's Statement in Support of Shareholder Proposal
 
41


 
Board of Directors' Statement in Opposition to the Shareholder Proposal
 
41


Other Matters
 
43


Date for Receipt of Shareholder Proposals for the 2011 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement
 
43


Procedure for Recommendation and Nomination of Directors and Transaction of Business at Annual Meeting
 
43


General
 
43


EXHIBIT A – DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE STANDARD
 
A-1






Reservation Form for Annual Meeting
 
Back Cover







   




Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement  
Solicitation of Proxies  

The accompanying proxy is solicited on behalf of the board of directors for use at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The meeting will be held on April 23, 2010, at Abbott's headquarters, 100
Abbott Park Road, at the intersection of Route 137 and Waukegan Road, Lake County, Illinois. This proxy statement and the accompanying proxy card are being mailed to shareholders on or about
March 15, 2010. 





Information about the Annual Meeting




Who Can Vote  

Shareholders of record at the close of business on February 24, 2010 will be entitled to notice of and to vote at the Annual Meeting. As of January 31, 2010, Abbott had 1,552,643,385
outstanding common shares, which are Abbott's only outstanding voting securities. All shareholders have cumulative voting rights in the election of directors and one vote per share on all other
matters. 
Cumulative Voting  

Cumulative voting allows a shareholder to multiply the number of shares owned by the number of directors to be elected and to cast the total for one nominee or distribute the votes among the nominees,
as the shareholder desires. Nominees who receive the greatest number of votes will be elected. If you wish to cumulate your votes, you must sign and mail in your proxy card or attend the Annual
Meeting. 
Voting by Proxy  

All of Abbott's shareholders may vote by mail or at the Annual Meeting. The bylaws provide that a shareholder may authorize no more than two persons as proxies to attend and vote at the meeting. Most
of Abbott's shareholders may also vote their shares by telephone or the Internet. If you vote by telephone or the Internet, you do not need to return your proxy card. The instructions for voting by
telephone or the Internet can be found with your proxy card. 
Revoking a Proxy  

You may revoke your proxy by voting in person at the Annual Meeting or, at any time prior to the meeting: 

•by
delivering a written notice to the secretary of Abbott,
•by
delivering an authorized proxy with a later date, or
•by
voting by telephone or the Internet after you have given your proxy. 

1

 
Discretionary Voting Authority  

Unless authority is withheld in accordance with the instructions on the proxy, the persons named in the proxy will vote the shares covered by proxies they receive to elect the 12 nominees named in
Item 1 on the proxy card. Should a nominee become unavailable to serve, the shares will be voted for a substitute designated by the board of directors, or for fewer than 12 nominees if, in the
judgment of the proxy holders, such action is necessary or desirable. The persons named in the proxy may also decide to vote shares cumulatively so that one or more of the nominees may receive fewer
votes than the other nominees (or no votes at all), although they have no present intention of doing so. 
Where
a shareholder has specified a choice for or against the ratification of the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors, or the approval of a shareholder proposal, or where
the shareholder has abstained on these matters, the shares represented by the proxy will be voted (or not voted) as specified. Where no choice has been specified, the proxy will be voted FOR the
ratification of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors and AGAINST the shareholder proposals. 
With
the exception of matters omitted from this proxy statement pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the board of directors is not aware of any other issue which may
properly be brought before the meeting. If other matters are properly brought before the meeting, the accompanying proxy will be voted in accordance with the judgment of the proxy holders. 
Quorum and Vote Required to Approve Each Item on the Proxy  

A majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote on a matter, represented in person or by proxy, constitutes a quorum for consideration of that matter at the meeting. The affirmative vote of a
majority of the shares represented at the meeting and entitled to vote on a matter shall be the act of the shareholders with respect to that matter. 
Effect of Broker Non-Votes and Abstentions  

A proxy submitted by an institution such as a broker or bank that holds shares for the account of a beneficial owner may indicate that all or a portion of the shares represented by that proxy are not
being voted with respect to a particular matter. This could occur, for example, when the broker or bank is not permitted to vote those shares in the absence of instructions from the beneficial owner
of the stock. These "non-voted shares" will be considered shares not present and, therefore, not entitled to vote on those matters, although these shares may be considered present and
entitled to vote for other purposes. Brokers and banks have discretionary authority to vote shares in absence of instructions on matters the New York Stock Exchange considers "routine", such as the
ratification of the appointment of the auditors. They do not have discretionary authority to vote shares in absence of instructions on "non-routine" matters. The election of directors and
the shareholder proposals are considered "non-routine" matters. Non-voted shares will not affect the determination of the outcome of the vote on any matter to be decided at the
meeting. Shares represented by proxies which are present and entitled to vote on a matter but which have elected to abstain from voting on that matter will have the effect of votes against that
matter. 
Inspectors of Election  

The inspectors of election and the tabulators of all proxies, ballots, and voting tabulations that identify shareholders are independent and are not Abbott employees. 
Cost of Soliciting Proxies  

Abbott will bear the cost of making solicitations from its shareholders and will reimburse banks and brokerage firms for out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with this
solicitation. Proxies may be solicited by mail, telephone, Internet, or in person by directors, officers, or employees of Abbott and its subsidiaries. 
Abbott
has retained Georgeson Inc. to aid in the solicitation of proxies, at an estimated cost of $19,000 plus reimbursement for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses. 
Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan  

Participants in the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan will receive a voting instruction card for their shares held in the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Trust. The Stock Retirement Trust
is administered by both a trustee and an investment committee. The trustee of the Trust is Mercer Trust Company. The members of the investment committee are William J. Chase, Stephen R. Fussell, and
William H.
Preece, Jr., employees of Abbott. The voting power with respect to the shares is held by and shared between the investment committee and the participants. The investment committee must solicit voting
instructions from the participants and follow the voting instructions it receives. The investment committee may use its own discretion with respect to those shares for which no voting instructions are
received. 
Confidential Voting  

It is Abbott's policy that all proxies, ballots, and voting tabulations that reveal how a particular shareholder has voted be kept confidential and not be disclosed, except: 

•where
disclosure may be required by law or regulation,
•where
disclosure may be necessary in order for Abbott to assert or defend claims,
•where
a shareholder provides comments with a proxy,
•where
a shareholder expressly requests disclosure,
•to
allow the inspectors of election to certify the results of a vote, or
•in
other limited circumstances, such as a contested election or proxy solicitation not approved and recommended by the board of directors. 

2

 

Information Concerning Security Ownership  

The table below reports the number of common shares beneficially owned as of December 31, 2009, by BlackRock, Inc., (directly or through its subsidiaries) the only person known to Abbott
to own beneficially more than 5% of Abbott's outstanding common shares. It is based on information contained in a Schedule 13G filed by BlackRock, Inc. with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on January 29, 2010. BlackRock reports it has sole voting and investment power with respect to these shares. 



Name and Address of Beneficial Owner
 
Shares
Beneficially
Owned
 
Percent of
Class
 



 


BlackRock, Inc
40 East 52nd Street
New York, New York 10022
 
91,716,744
 
5.9
%



 




Information Concerning Nominees for Directors (Item 1 on Proxy Card)  

Twelve directors are to be elected to hold office until the next Annual Meeting or until their successors are elected. All of the nominees are currently serving as directors. 


3




   




Nominees for Election as Directors  









 
Robert J. Alpern,
M.D.                                    Age
59                        Director since 2008
 Ensign Professor of Medicine, Professor of Internal Medicine, and Dean of Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut
 Dr. Robert Alpern has served as the Ensign Professor of Medicine, Professor of Internal Medicine, and Dean of Yale School of Medicine since June 2004. From July 1998 to June 2004, Dr. Alpern was the Dean of
The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. He joined the faculty of The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in 1987 as Associate Professor and Chief of the Division of Nephrology. Dr. Alpern also served as Professor of
Internal Medicine and held the Ruth W. and Milton P. Levy, Sr. Chair in Molecular Nephrology and the Atticus James Gill, M.D. Chair in Medical Science, while on the faculty of The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. Dr. Alpern
served on the Scientific Advisory Board of Ilypsa from 2004 until 2007 and since 2007 has served on the Scientific Advisory Board of Relypsa. Dr. Alpern also serves as a Director on the Board of Yale – New Haven Hospital.






 


 

Roxanne S. Austin                                     
     Age 49                        Director since 2000
 President and Chief Executive Officer, Move Networks, Inc., American Fork, Utah (Telecommunications) and President, Austin Investment Advisors, Newport Coast, California (Private Investment and
Consulting Firm)
 Mrs. Austin is the president and chief executive officer of Move Networks, Inc., an IP-based television solution provider. Since 2004, she has been the president of Austin Investment Advisors, a private
investment and consulting firm. She served as president and chief operating officer of DIRECTV, Inc. from June 2001 to December 2003. She also served as executive vice president of Hughes Electronics Corporation and as a member of its executive
committee until December 2003. From 1997 to June 2001, Mrs. Austin was the corporate senior vice president and chief financial officer of Hughes Electronics Corporation. Prior to joining Hughes in 1993, Mrs. Austin was a partner at the
accounting firm Deloitte & Touche. Mrs. Austin earned her B.B.A. degree in accounting from the University of Texas at San Antonio. She serves on the board of trustees of the California Science Center. Mrs. Austin serves on the
board of directors of Target Corporation, Teledyne Technologies Inc., and Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (LM Ericsson Telephone Company).








 
 

William M. Daley                                     
         Age 61                        Director since 2004
 Vice Chairman and Head of the Office of Corporate Responsibility and Chairman of the Midwest, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Chicago, Illinois (Banking and Financial Services Company)
 Mr. Daley has served as the senior executive of the Midwest region and serves on the JPMorgan Chase & Co. Executive Committee and on its International Council since May 2004. He served as president,
SBC Communications, Inc. (diversified telecommunications) from December 2001 to May 2004. Mr. Daley was vice chairman of Evercore Capital Partners L.P. from January to November 2001. From June to December 2000, Mr. Daley served as
chairman of Vice President Albert Gore's 2000 presidential election campaign. Mr. Daley served as the U.S. Secretary of Commerce from January 1997 to June 2000. Mr. Daley currently serves on the board of directors of The Boeing Company, The
Art Institute of Chicago, Loyola University of Chicago, and Northwestern University. He also sits on the Council on Foreign Relations. Mr. Daley also served on the board of directors of Boston Properties, Inc. from 2003 to 2007.
Mr. Daley is a graduate of Loyola University in Chicago and of John Marshall Law School. 




4

 







 


 

W. James Farrell                                     
        Age 67                        Director since 2006
 Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Illinois Tool Works Inc., Glenview, Illinois
(Worldwide Manufacturer of Highly Engineered Products and Specialty Systems)
 Mr. Farrell served as the chairman of Illinois Tool Works Inc. from 1996 to 2006 and as its chief executive officer from 1995 to 2005. He currently serves on the board of directors of Allstate Insurance
Company, UAL Corporation, and 3M. Mr. Farrell also served on the board of directors of Kraft Foods, Inc. from 2001 to 2006 and Sears, Roebuck and Company from 1999 to 2005.






 


 

H. Laurance Fuller                                     
     Age 71                        Director since 1988
 Retired Co-Chairman of the Board, BP Amoco, p.l.c., London, United Kingdom
(Integrated Petroleum and Chemicals Company)
Mr. Fuller was elected president of Amoco Corporation in 1983 and chairman and chief executive officer in 1991. As the result of the merger of British Petroleum, p.l.c. and Amoco effective December 31, 1998, he became
co-chairman of BP Amoco, p.l.c. He retired from that position in April 2000. He currently serves as a director of Cabot Microelectronics Corporation and The Nature Conservancy of South Carolina, and a life trustee of The Orchestral Association and
presidential counselor of Cornell University. Mr. Fuller also served on the board of directors of Motorola, Inc. from 1994 to 2007.






 


 

William A. Osborn                                     
      Age 62                        Director since 2008
 Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Northern Trust Corporation (A Multibank Holding Company) and The Northern Trust Company, Chicago, Illinois (Banking Services Company)
 Mr. Osborn was chairman of Northern Trust Corporation from 1995 through 2009 and served as its chief executive officer from 1995 through 2007. Mr. Osborn currently serves as a director of
Caterpillar Inc., General Dynamics Corporation, and Tribune Company. He is chairman of the Board of Trustees of Northwestern University and also serves as chairman of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra Association. Mr. Osborn served on the
board of directors of Nicor, Inc. from 1999 to 2006. He holds a B.A. degree and an M.B.A. degree from Northwestern University.




5

 







 


 

The Rt. Hon. Lord Owen CH FRCP                  Age
71                        Director since 1996
 Chairman of Europe Steel, Ltd., London, United Kingdom (International Trader in Steel Products)
 David Owen is a British subject. He was a neurologist and Research Fellow on the Medical Unit of St. Thomas' Hospital, London, from 1962 through 1968 and a member of Parliament for Plymouth in the House of Commons
from 1966 until he retired in May of 1992. In 1992, he was created a Life Peer and a Member of the House of Lords. In August of 1992, the European Union appointed him Co-Chairman of the International Conference on Former Yugoslavia. He stepped down
in June of 1995. He was chairman of Global Natural Energy p.l.c. (an owner and operator of gasoline retailing sites) from 1995 to 2006. Lord Owen currently serves as a director of Hyperdynamics Corp. Lord Owen was Secretary for Foreign and
Commonwealth Affairs from 1977 to 1979 and Minister of Health from 1974 to 1976.








 
 

Roy S. Roberts                                     
            Age 70                        Director since 1998
 Managing Director, Reliant Equity Investors, Chicago, Illinois (Venture Capital Firm)
 Mr. Roberts has served as managing director of Reliant Equity Investors since September 2000. Mr. Roberts retired from General Motors in April 2000. At the time of his retirement, he was group vice president
for North American Vehicle Sales, Service and Marketing of General Motors Corporation, having been elected to that position in October 1998. Prior to that time, he was vice president and general manager in charge of Field Sales, Service and Parts for
the Vehicle Sales, Service and Marketing Group from August 1998 to October 1998, general manager of the Pontiac-GMC Division from February 1996 to October 1998, and general manager of the GMC Truck Division from October 1992 to February 1996.
Mr. Roberts first joined General Motors Corporation in 1977 and became a corporate officer of General Motors Corporation in April 1987. Mr. Roberts earned a bachelor's degree from Western Michigan University. He also completed the Executive
Development Program at Harvard Business School. He currently serves as a director of Enova Systems, Inc., as Trustee Emeritus at Western Michigan University, and as past president and on the National Board of Directors for the Boy Scouts of
America. Mr. Roberts also served on the board of directors of Burlington Northern Santa Fe from 1993 to 2010.








 
 

Samuel C. Scott III                                    
       Age 65                        Director since 2007
 Retired Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Corn Products International, Inc., Westchester, Illinois
(A Corn Refining Company)
 In 2009, Mr. Scott retired as chairman, president and chief executive officer of Corn Products International, after having served in those positions since 1997. He was president of the Corn Refining Division of CPC
International from 1995 through 1997, when CPC International spun off Corn Products International as a separate corporation. Mr. Scott currently serves on the board of directors of Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, Motorola, Inc., the
Chicago Council on Global Affairs, the Chicago Urban League, Northwestern Healthcare, and Chicago Sister Cities. Mr. Scott graduated from Fairleigh Dickinson University.




6

 









 
 

William D. Smithburg                                    
   Age 71                        Director since 1982
 Retired Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, The Quaker Oats Company, Chicago, Illinois (Worldwide Food Manufacturer and Marketer of Beverages and Grain-Based Products)
 Mr. Smithburg retired from Quaker Oats in October 1997. Mr. Smithburg joined Quaker Oats in 1966 and became president and chief executive officer in 1981, and chairman and chief executive officer in 1983 and
also served as president from November 1990 to January 1993 and again from November 1995. Mr. Smithburg was elected to the Quaker board in 1978 and served on its executive committee until he retired. He is a director of Smurfit-Stone Container
Corporation, Northern Trust Corporation, and Corning Incorporated. He is a member of the board of trustees of Northwestern University. Mr. Smithburg earned a B.S. degree from DePaul University and an M.B.A. degree from Northwestern
University.






 


 

Glenn F. Tilton                                     
             Age 61                        Director since 2007
 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of UAL Corporation, Elk Grove Township, Illinois (Holding Company) and United Air Lines, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of UAL Corporation (Air
Transportation)

 Mr. Tilton has been chairman, president and chief executive officer of UAL Corporation (UAL Corporation filed a voluntary bankruptcy petition under the federal bankruptcy laws in December 2002 and exited bankruptcy in
February 2006) and United Air Lines, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of UAL Corporation since September 2002. From October 2001 to August 2002, he served as vice chairman of Chevron Texaco Corporation (global energy). In addition, from May 2002
to September 2002 he served as non-executive chairman of Dynegy, Inc. (energy). From February to October 2001 he served as chairman and chief executive officer of Texaco Inc. (global energy). He currently serves as the chairman of the board
of directors of the Air Transport Association, and is a member of the U.S. Travel and Tourism Advisory Board. He also serves on the board of the directors of Northwestern Memorial Hospital and on the board of trustees for the Field Museum and the
Museum of Science and Industry. Mr. Tilton also served on the board of directors of Lincoln National Corporation from 2002 to 2007, and TXU Corporation from 2005 to 2007.






 


 

Miles D. White                                     
           Age 55                        Director since 1998
 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Abbott Laboratories
 Mr. White has served as Abbott's chairman of the board and chief executive officer since 1999. He served as an executive vice president of Abbott from 1998 to 1999, as senior vice president, diagnostics operations
from 1994 to 1998, and as vice president, diagnostics systems operations from 1993 to 1994. Mr. White joined Abbott in 1984. He received both his bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering and M.B.A. degree from Stanford University. He serves
on the board of trustees of The Culver Educational Foundation, The Field Museum in Chicago, and Northwestern University. He currently serves as a director of McDonald's Corporation. Mr. White also served on the board of directors of Motorola,
 Inc. from 2005 to 2009 and Tribune Company from 2005 to 2007.




7


   




The Board of Directors and its Committees  
The Board of Directors  

The board of directors held seven meetings in 2009. The average attendance of all incumbent directors at board and committee meetings in 2009 was 95 percent. Abbott encourages its board members
to attend the annual shareholders meeting. Last year, all of Abbott's directors attended the annual shareholders meeting. 
The
board has determined that each of the following directors is independent in accordance with the New York Stock Exchange listing standards: R. J. Alpern, R. S. Austin,
W. M. Daley, W. J. Farrell, H. L. Fuller, W. A. Osborn, D. A. L. Owen, W. A. Reynolds,
R. S. Roberts, S. C. Scott III, W. D. Smithburg, and G. F. Tilton. To determine independence, the board applied the categorical standards
attached as Exhibit A to this proxy statement. The board also considered whether a director has any other material relationships with Abbott or its subsidiaries and concluded that none of these
directors had a relationship that impaired the director's independence. This included consideration of the fact that some of the directors are officers or serve on boards of companies or entities to
which Abbott sold products or made contributions or from which Abbott purchased products and services during the year. In making its determination, the board relied on both information provided by the
directors and information developed internally by Abbott. 
The
board has risk oversight responsibility for Abbott and administers this responsibility both directly and with assistance from its committees. The board has determined that the current leadership
structure, in which the offices of chairman and chief executive officer are held by one individual and an independent director acts as lead director, ensures the appropriate level of oversight,
independence and responsibility is applied to all board decisions, including risk oversight, and is in the best interests of Abbott and its shareholders. The chairman of the nominations and governance
committee acts as the lead director to facilitate communication with the board and presides over regularly conducted executive sessions of the independent directors or sessions where the chairman of
the board is not present. It is the role of the lead director to review and approve matters, such as agenda items, schedule sufficiency, and, where appropriate, information provided to other board
members. The lead director is chosen by and from the independent members of the board of directors, and serves as the liaison between the chairman and the independent directors; however, all directors
are encouraged to, and in fact do, consult with the chairman on each of the above topics as well. The lead director, and each of the other directors, communicates regularly with the chairman and chief
executive officer regarding appropriate agenda topics and other board related matters. 
Abbott
directors have backgrounds that when combined provide a portfolio of experience and knowledge that serve Abbott's governance and strategic needs. Director nominees are considered on the basis
of a range of criteria including broad-based business knowledge and relationships, prominence and excellent reputations in their primary fields of endeavor, as well as a global business perspective
and commitment to good corporate citizenship. They must have demonstrated experience and ability that is relevant to the board's oversight role with respect to Abbott's business and affairs. Each
director's biography includes the particular experience and qualifications that led the board to conclude that the director should serve on the board. The directors' biographies are on pages 4
to 7. 
Committees of the Board of Directors  

The board of directors has five committees established in Abbott's bylaws: the executive committee, audit committee, compensation committee, nominations and governance committee, and public policy
committee. Each of the members of the audit committee, compensation committee, nominations and governance committee, and public policy committee is independent. 
The
executive committee, whose members are M. D. White, chairman, R. S. Austin, H. L. Fuller, W. A. Reynolds, and W. D. Smithburg,
did not hold any meetings in 2009. This committee may exercise all the authority of the board in the management of Abbott, except for matters expressly reserved by law for board action. 
The
audit committee, whose members are R. S. Austin, chair, D. A. L. Owen, S. C. Scott III, W. D. Smithburg, and
G. F. Tilton, held seven meetings in 2009. The committee is governed by a written charter. This committee assists the board of directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibility with
respect to Abbott's accounting and financial reporting practices and the audit process, the quality and integrity of Abbott's financial statements, the independent auditors' qualifications,
independence and performance, the performance of Abbott's internal audit function and internal auditors, and certain areas of legal and regulatory compliance. Each of the members of the audit
committee is financially literate, as required of audit committee members by the New York Stock Exchange. The board of directors has determined that R. S. Austin, the committee's chair,
is an "audit committee financial expert." A copy of the report of the audit committee is on page 38. 
The
compensation committee, whose members are W. D. Smithburg, chairman, W. M. Daley, W. J. Farrell, H. L. Fuller, and W. A. Osborn, held three
meetings in 2009. The committee is governed by a written charter. This committee assists the board of directors in carrying out the board's responsibilities relating to the compensation of Abbott's
executive officers and directors. The compensation committee annually reviews the compensation paid to the members of the board and gives its recommendations to the full 

8

 


board regarding both the amount of director compensation that should be paid and the allocation of that compensation between equity-based awards and cash. In recommending director compensation, the
compensation committee takes comparable director fees into account and reviews any arrangement that could be viewed as indirect director compensation. The processes and procedures used for the
consideration and determination of executive compensation are described in the section of the proxy captioned, "Compensation Discussion and Analysis." This committee also reviews, approves, and
administers the incentive compensation plans in which any executive officer of Abbott participates and all of Abbott's equity-based plans. It may delegate the responsibility to administer and make
grants under these plans to management, except to the extent that such delegation would be inconsistent with applicable law or regulation or with the listing rules of the New York Stock Exchange. The
compensation committee has the sole authority, under its charter, to select, retain and/or terminate independent compensation advisors. The committee has engaged Hewitt Associates LLC to
provide counsel and advice on executive and non-employee director compensation matters. Hewitt, and its principal, report directly to the chair of the committee. The principal meets
regularly, and as needed, with the committee in executive sessions, has direct access to the chair during and between meetings, and performs no other services for Abbott or its senior executives. The
committee determines what variables it will instruct Hewitt to consider, and they include: peer groups against which performance and pay should be examined, financial metrics to be used to assess
Abbott's relative performance, competitive long-term incentive practices in the marketplace, and compensation levels relative to market practice. The committee negotiates and approves any
fees paid to Hewitt for these services. In 2009, the committee authorized payment of approximately $290,000 to Hewitt for services rendered to the committee relating to executive compensation.
Separately, Abbott management engaged Hewitt to perform and paid approximately $6 million for unrelated services, including actuarial work, pension design and administration, and general
consulting. The compensation committee was informed about these services, but its formal approval was not requested. A copy of the compensation committee report is on page 16. 
The
nominations and governance committee, whose members are H. L. Fuller, chairman, W. J. Farrell, D. A. L. Owen, W. A. Reynolds, and
R. S. Roberts, held two meetings in 2009. The committee is governed by a written charter. This committee assists the board of directors in identifying individuals qualified to become
board members and recommends to the board the nominees for election as directors at the next annual meeting of shareholders, recommends to the board the persons to be elected as executive officers of
Abbott, develops and recommends to the board the corporate governance guidelines applicable to Abbott, and serves in an advisory capacity to the board and the chairman of the board on matters of
organization, management succession plans, major changes in the organizational structure of Abbott, and the conduct of board activities. The process used by this committee to identify a nominee to
serve as a member of the board of directors depends on the qualities being sought. From time to time, Abbott engages an executive search firm to assist the committee in identifying individuals
qualified to be board members. Board members should have backgrounds that when combined provide a portfolio of experience and knowledge that will serve Abbott's governance and strategic needs. In the
process of identifying nominees to serve as a member of the board of directors, the nominations and governance committee considers the board's diversity of ethnicity, gender and geography and assesses
the effectiveness of the process in achieving that diversity. Board candidates will be considered on the basis of a range of criteria, including broad-based business knowledge and relationships,
prominence and excellent reputations in their primary fields of endeavor, as well as a global business perspective and commitment to good corporate citizenship. Directors should have demonstrated
experience and ability that is relevant to the board of directors' oversight role with respect to Abbott's business and affairs. 
The
public policy committee, whose members are W. A. Reynolds, chair, R.J. Alpern, R. S. Austin, W. M. Daley, and R. S. Roberts held one
meeting in 2009. The committee is governed by a written charter. This committee assists the board of directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibility with respect to Abbott's public policy,
certain areas of legal and regulatory compliance, and governmental affairs and healthcare compliance issues that affect Abbott by discharging the responsibilities set forth in its charter. 
Communicating with the Board of Directors  

Interested parties may communicate with the board of directors by writing a letter to the chairman of the board, to the chairman of the nominations and governance committee, who acts as the lead
director at the meetings of the independent directors, or to the independent directors c/o Abbott Laboratories, 100 Abbott Park Road, D-364, AP6D, Abbott Park, Illinois
60064-6400 Attention: corporate secretary. The general counsel and corporate secretary regularly forward to the addressee all letters other than mass mailings, advertisements, and other
materials not relevant to Abbott's business. In addition, directors regularly receive a log of all correspondence received by the company that is addressed to a member of the board and may request any
correspondence on that log. 
Corporate Governance Materials  

Abbott's corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, director independence standards, code of business conduct and the charters of Abbott's audit committee, compensation
committee, nominations and governance committee, and public policy committee are all available in the corporate governance section of Abbott's investor relations Web site (www.abbottinvestor.com). 

9


   




Director Compensation  
Abbott
employees are not compensated for serving on the board or board committees. Abbott's non-employee directors are compensated for their service under the Abbott Laboratories
Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan and the Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program. 
The
following table sets forth a summary of the non-employee directors' 2009 compensation. 



Name
 
Fees Earned or Paid in Cash
($) (1)
 
Stock Awards
($) (2)
 
Option Awards
($) (3)
 
Change in Pension
Value and Nonqualified Deferred Compensation
Earnings ($) (5)
 
All Other Compensation
($) (6)
 
Total ($)





R. J. Alpern
 
$
108,000
 
$
106,981
 
$
0
 
$
197
 
$
2,276
 
$
217,454





R. S. Austin
 
 
126,000
 
 
106,981
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
232,981





W. M. Daley
 
 
108,000
 
 
106,981
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
5,886
 
 
220,867





W. J. Farrell
 
 
108,000
 
 
106,981
 
 
0
 
 
1,574
 
 
4,840
 
 
221,395





H. L. Fuller
 
 
120,000
 
 
106,981
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
39,498
 
 
266,479





W. A. Osborn
 
 
108,000
 
 
106,981
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
2,294
 
 
217,275





D. A. L. Owen
 
 
88,500
 
 
106,981
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
25,000
 
 
220,481





W. A. Reynolds
 
 
120,000
 
 
106,981
 
 
0
 
 
1,831
 
 
77,956
 
 
306,768





R. S. Roberts
 
 
108,000
 
 
106,981
 
 
0
 
 
1,615
 
 
23,453
 
 
240,049





S. C. Scott III
 
 
114,000
 
 
106,981
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
17,500
 
 
238,481





W. D. Smithburg
 
 
126,000
 
 
106,981
 
 
26,145
(4)
 
218
 
 
107,744
 
 
367,088





G. F. Tilton
 
 
114,000
 
 
106,981
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
27,761
 
 
248,742







(1)Under
the Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan, effective as of the 2009 Annual Shareholder Meeting, non-employee directors earn $9,500 for
each month of service as a director and $1,000 for each month of service as a chairman of a board committee, other than the chairman of the audit committee. The chairman of the audit committee
receives $1,500 for each month of service as a chairman of that committee and the other members of the audit committee receive $500 for each month of service as a committee member. 

Fees
earned under the Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan are paid in cash to the director, paid in the form of vested non-qualified stock options (based on an
independent appraisal of their fair value), deferred (as a non-funded obligation of Abbott), or paid currently into an individual grantor trust established by the director. The
distribution of deferred fees and amounts held in a director's grantor trust generally commences when the director reaches age 65, or upon retirement from the board of directors. The director may
elect to have deferred fees and fees deposited in trust credited to either a guaranteed interest account at the prime rate plus 2.25 percentage points or to a stock equivalent account that
earns the same return as if the fees were invested in Abbott stock. If necessary, Abbott contributes funds to a director's trust so that as of year end the stock equivalent account balance (net of
taxes) is not less than seventy-five percent of the market value of the related Abbott common stock at year end. Abbott pays the director for any tax owed with respect to the income earned
by the trust or any supplemental contributions to the trust by Abbott. 
With
respect to D. A. L. Owen, the amount reported does not include $25,500 in fees which were received in the form of non-qualified stock options to purchase 1,496.25
shares and were reported in the 2009 proxy statement. 


(2)The
amounts reported in this column represent the aggregate grant date fair value of the awards in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ASC Topic 718. Abbott
determines the grant date fair value of stock unit awards by 

10

 

multiplying
the number of restricted stock units granted by the average of the high and low market prices of an Abbott common share on the date of grant. 


In
addition to the fees described in footnote 1, the Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program provides that each non-employee director elected to the board of directors at
the annual shareholder meeting receives vested restricted stock units having a value of $107,000 (rounded down). In 2009, this was 2,465 units. The non-employee directors receive cash
payments equal to the dividends paid on the Abbott shares covered by the units at the same rate as other shareholders. Upon termination, retirement from the board, death, or a change in control of
Abbott, a non-employee director will receive one Abbott common share for each restricted stock unit outstanding under the Incentive Stock Program. 
The
following restricted stock units were outstanding as of December 31, 2009: R. J. Alpern, 2,465; R. S. Austin, 10,128;
W. M. Daley, 10,128; W. J. Farrell, 8,239; H. L. Fuller, 10,128; W. A. Osborn, 4,382;
D. A. L. Owen, 10,128; W. A. Reynolds, 10,128; R. S. Roberts, 10,128; S. C. Scott III, 6,112,
W. D. Smithburg, 10,128; G. F. Tilton, 6,112. 


(3)The
following options were outstanding as of December 31, 2009: R. S. Austin, 6,668; H. L. Fuller, 43,460;
D. A. L. Owen, 33,587; W. A. Reynolds, 31,139; R. S. Roberts, 16,179; and, W. D. Smithburg, 10,091.
(4)These
are replacement options that were issued to W. D. Smithburg when he paid the exercise price of previously issued options with Abbott common shares. The amount
reported in this column represents the aggregate grant date fair value of the options in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ASC Topic 718 and was determined as of the options' grant
date using a Black-Scholes stock option valuation model. The model uses the following assumptions: expected volatility of 24%, dividend yield of 2.7%, risk-free interest of 1.6%, and an
option life of 1.3 years. These amounts are being reported solely for the purpose of comparative disclosure in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission rules. There is no
certainty that the amount determined using a Black-Scholes stock option valuation model would be the value at which the options would be traded for cash.
(5)The
totals in this column include reportable interest credited under Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan during the year.
(6)The
amounts reported in this column include tax payments made in connection with the director's existing trust established under the Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee
Directors' Fee Plan, as follows: H. L. Fuller, $26,207; W. A. Reynolds, $46,674; and, W. D. Smithburg, $74,893. Abbott's non-employee directors
are eligible to participate in Abbott's charitable matching grant program, which matches the director's contributions (up to $25,000 annually) to charities recognized by the Internal Revenue Service.
These amounts also include charitable matching grant contributions, as follows: H. L. Fuller, $10,000; D. A. L. Owen, $25,000;
W. A. Reynolds, $25,000; R. S. Roberts, $15,000; S. C. Scott, III, $17,500; W. D. Smithburg, $25,000; and,
G. F. Tilton, $25,000. 

11


   




Security Ownership of Executive Officers and Directors  
The
table below reflects the number of common shares beneficially owned as of January 31, 2010, by each director, by the chief executive officer, the chief financial officer, and the three
other most highly paid executive officers (the "named officers"), and by all directors and executive officers of Abbott as a group. It also reflects the number of stock equivalent units and restricted
stock units held by non-employee directors under the Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan. 



Name
 
Shares
Beneficially
Owned
(1)(2)(3)
 
Stock
Options
Exercisable
within
60 days of
January 31,
2010
 
Stock
Equivalent
Units





R. J. Alpern
 
2,465
 
0
 
629





R. S. Austin
 
16,972
 
6,668
 
0





O. Bohuon
 
73,676
 
238,245
 
0





W. M. Daley
 
13,628
 
0
 
10,087





W. J. Farrell
 
9,239
 
0
 
0





T. C. Freyman
 
389,376
 
706,473
 
0





H. L. Fuller
 
15,328
 
43,460
 
57,267





J. V. Mazzo
 
50,000
 
439,505
 
0





W. A. Osborn
 
15,382
 
0
 
3,885





D. A. L. Owen
 
12,088
 
33,587
 
6,554





W. A. Reynolds
 
47,482
 
31,139
 
81,557





R. S. Roberts
 
21,620
 
16,179
 
1,551





L. J. Schumacher
 
122,842
 
430,964
 
0





S. C. Scott III
 
12,112
 
0
 
5,602





W. D. Smithburg
 
56,877
 
5,211
 
131,484





G. F. Tilton
 
13,462
 
0
 
5,602





M. D. White
 
1,270,788
 
4,106,848
 
0





All directors and executive officers as a group (4)(5)
 
3,953,269
 
10,559,941
 
304,218







(1)The
table includes shares held in the officers' accounts in the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Trust as follows: T. C. Freyman, 22,160;
M. D. White, 20,159; and, all executive officers as a group, 126,556. Each officer has shared voting power and sole investment power with respect to the shares held in his or her
account.
(2)The
table includes restricted stock units held by the non-employee directors and payable in stock upon their retirement from the board as follows:
R. J. Alpern, 2,465; R. S. Austin, 10,128; W. M. Daley, 10,128; W. J. Farrell, 8,239;
H. L. Fuller, 10,128; W. A. Osborn, 4,382; D. A. L. Owen, 10,128; W. A. Reynolds, 10,128;
R. S. Roberts, 10,128; S. C. Scott III, 6,112; W. D. Smithburg, 10,128; G. F. Tilton, 6,112; and, all
directors as a group, 98,206.
(3)The
table includes shares pledged as security as follows: T. C. Freyman, 47,292; M. D. White, 276,303; and all executive officers as a group,
379,278.
(4)Certain
executive officers of Abbott are fiduciaries of several employee benefit trusts maintained by Abbott. As such, they have shared voting and/or investment power with respect to
the common shares held by those trusts. The table does not include the shares held by the trusts. As of January 31, 2010, these trusts owned a total of 47,010,894 (3.0%) of the outstanding
shares of Abbott.
(5)Excluding
the shared voting and/or investment power over the shares held by the trusts described in footnote 4, the directors, director nominees, and executive officers as a
group together own beneficially less than one percent of the outstanding shares of Abbott. 

12


   




Executive Compensation  
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
COMPENSATION PHILOSOPHY  

The Compensation Committee has established a compensation philosophy to attract, retain and motivate executives and to align their financial rewards with shareholder returns. At Abbott, this
philosophy results in the vast majority of executive compensation being performance based. The following guiding principles apply: 
All
components of both performance and pay should be examined relative to two peer groups: 

1.Primarily
to direct health care competitors. This group presently includes Amgen, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Eli Lilly and Company, Glaxo SmithKline plc, Johnson &
Johnson, Merck & Company, Inc., Novartis, Pfizer, Inc. and, prior to their acquisition, Schering-Plough Corporation and Wyeth.
2.Secondarily,
to a select group of global, diversified high performing companies with a five-year average return on equity of 18% or higher and similar to Abbott in terms of
size and/or scope of operations. This group currently includes 3M Company, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Caterpillar, The Coca-Cola Company, Colgate-Palmolive Company, General Dynamics
Corporation, General Mills, Inc., H.J. Heinz Company, Kellogg Company, Kimberly-Clark Corporation, McDonald's Corporation, Merck & Company, Inc., PepsiCo, Inc.,
Procter & Gamble and Sara Lee Corporation. 
To
achieve the Compensation Committee's objectives, Abbott's pay plans must serve three primary purposes. First, they must be competitive. Presently, competitive means targeting total compensation, in
the aggregate (i.e., including base pay, short-term incentives, long-term incentives and benefits) in a manner that references the median of our primary health care
comparison group as an initial benchmark, but varies based on individual and company performance relative to those peer groups over 1, 3 and 5-years. Individual targets are equitably set
on the same basis, compared to both peer groups and internal benchmarks. Secondly, pay should vary based on company and individual performance. Thirdly, they should align participant's interests with
shareholders. 
Specifically,
base salaries are typically reviewed annually. Overall, company targets are set based on the company's business plan. Individual increases are granted based on performance (merit), and
influenced by internal and external equity. The Compensation Committee focuses on those elements of pay that are driven by performance, rather than on fixed elements such as base pay. 
Short-term
(annual) incentive targets are determined annually. Specific performance goals supporting both the company's overall goals for the year and the contributions of each executive
in his or her own area of responsibility are established. In this way, each executive's bonus is directly tied to company results, yet varies based on the individual's actual performance.
Short-term incentives primarily support the setting and tracking of individual and team goals, and rewarding performance that facilitates their achievement. In the aggregate,
short-term incentives should trail our peers when performance trails, match our peers when performance is at peer levels and exceed peers when performance does. 
Long-term
incentives are typically in the form of equity-based awards and are designed to increase executives' ownership in the company, creating direct alignment with the interests of
shareholders. As with other pay elements, reference is made to the median of competitive benchmarks, but the actual awards vary based on Abbott's overall results compared to peers, the company's
business plan, and individual performance. Long-term incentives serve two primary purposes. The first objective is the retention of our senior leaders, a key asset of the company.
Secondly, long term incentives help to continuously align shareholder and executive interests. Accordingly, while reference is made to the competitive medians, long-term incentive awards
should trail competitors when performance trails, match competitors when performance matches, and exceed competitors when performance exceeds their performance. To achieve this outcome, Abbott
currently grants both non-qualified stock options and full value shares subject to vesting restrictions. The full value shares are typically granted in two forms: performance based
restricted stock with a return on equity vesting threshold and traditional time-vested shares, which provide for cliff vesting to provide retention incentives for the recipient. 
Post-retirement
and certain other benefits are also necessary to attract and retain key executives. In the aggregate, while the practices of individual companies vary widely, these plans
also reference competitive medians which are adjusted to reflect the actual performance of the individual and the company. 
HOW OUR PHILOSOPHY GUIDES SPECIFIC DECISIONS  

As noted earlier, the vast majority of executive compensation is performance based. Each named officer establishes specific written goals for each performance period, typically a calendar year. These
goals establish targets which are tied with the financial, strategic and operational goals of the company and include company and business specific targets relating to net sales, gross margin,
investment results, earnings per share, and similar financial measures. The appropriate Executive Officer and the Chief Executive Officer review the goals of each executive for alignment and
calibration with the overall objectives of the company. The Chief Executive Officer's goals are established with input from and are reviewed by the independent Board members. The Chief Executive
Officer evaluates the performance and recommends the total compensation award for each named officer, other than himself. The Chief Executive Officer's performance, against these established goals, is
reviewed by the Compensation Committee and, based upon that evaluation, the Committee determines the compensation 

13

 


of the Chief Executive Officer, with the exception of the Chief Executive Officer's base compensation, which is approved by the independent directors of the full board, following the recommendation
of the Committee. The Committee also reviews the performance of the company's other executive officers, taking into consideration the Chief Executive Officer's recommendation, and determines their
compensation based on that review. 
COMPENSATION COMPONENTS  

Using compensation survey data from the peer groups, a range for total compensation and each of its elements—base salary, annual incentive, long-term incentives and
non-cash compensation—is annually established by the Committee for each named officer. The Committee considered a number of alternative financial metrics to assess Abbott's
relative performance. Based upon the advice of its independent compensation consultant, and its own review, the Committee determined that total shareholder return, earnings per share, return on
equity, and return on net assets were appropriate performance measures. The Committee also evaluates the success of the management team as a whole and each officer's goals in the development and
execution of strategic plans, the development of talent, successful progress of Abbott's diversity initiative, and the exercise of leadership within the industry and in the communities that Abbott
serves. 
Specific
pay decisions for the named officers are described below and reflected in the Summary Compensation Table on page 18 of this proxy statement. 
Base
Pay 
An
overall merit budget of 3.0% was established for executive staff in 2009. Most executives received a 3.0% merit increase, but due to individual performance, peer comparisons both outside and inside
the company, promotions, career growth and potential, individual increases varied. 
Performance-Based
Annual Cash Incentives 
All
named officers participate in the 1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan. The Performance Incentive Plan is designed to comply with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 for performance-based compensation. 
Each
year, maximum award allocations for Performance Incentive Plan participants as a percentage of consolidated net earnings are set. For 2009, the maximum award for the Chief Executive Officer was
.0015 of adjusted consolidated net earnings for the fiscal year and for all other Performance Incentive Plan participants .00075 of adjusted consolidated net earnings. Historically, and in 2009, the
Committee exercised its discretion to deliver Performance Incentive Plan awards below the maximums. 
Actual
2009 awards paid to Performance Incentive Plan participants were based on performance relative to pre-determined company and individual goals and measures. The company met or
exceeded its predetermined 2009 financial goals, including consolidated net earnings, profitability, sales, returns and earnings per share. Since the company financial goals were met in 2009, that
portion of each participant's award was paid accordingly. 
For
the individual component, each participant had a portion of his or her award determined based on goals specific to the officer's area of responsibility, which included sales, margin, returns, cash
flow, and demonstrated management and leadership, as appropriate. Goal performance varied among participants in 2009 and as a result the final bonus awards differed. 
Long-Term
Incentives—Equity Awards 
For
2008, Abbott was the top ranked company for total shareholder return for the three and five-year performance periods, and ranked second in the health care group on a
one-year basis. Based on the committee's assessment of this performance, the goals of the company's long-term incentive program, each individual's relative performance against
his or her pre-determined goals, current outstanding awards held by named officers and the recommendation of its independent compensation consultant, the Committee delivered
long-term incentive awards that were, in aggregate, in the top quartile of the health care peer group. 
Applying
these standards, the Committee determined the value for each named officer and made the awards reported in the Summary Compensation Table as shown on page 18 of this proxy statement.
Further, the Committee determined, in 2009, based on changing market practice, support from its independent compensation consultant and in consideration of the recommendations of institutional
shareholders, the long-term incentive award for named officers should be in the form of 25% stock options and 75% performance-vested shares. 
Abbott's
policy with respect to its annual equity award for all employees, including the Chief Executive Officer, executive officers and all other officers of the company, is to grant this award and
set the grant price at the same time each year, at the Compensation Committee's regularly scheduled February meeting. These meeting dates are generally the third Friday of February and are scheduled
two years in advance. In 2009, the annual grant was dated and the grant price set on February 20th. The historical practice for setting the grant price is the average of the
highest and lowest trading price of a common share on the date of the grant (rounded up to the next even penny). The grant price for the 2009 annual grant was set at $54.14. The high, low and closing
price of an Abbott common share on February 20th was $54.66, $53.60 and $54.03, respectively. 
In
establishing criteria for performance vesting shares, the Committee considered the recommendation of its independent compensation consultant, and the fact that the secondary comparison of
"High-Performance Companies" is currently defined by five-year average return on equity of 18% or greater. Accordingly, performance-based stock awards granted in 2009 will be
earned (vested) over a period of up to five years, with not more than one-third of the award vesting in any one year, dependent upon the company achieving an annual return on equity
threshold of 18% from continuing operations adjusted for specified items per the quarterly earnings releases (which is currently above the median of 

14

 


Abbott's Standard Industrial Classification peer group). If the thresholds are met in three of the five years, 100% of the performance shares will vest. If the thresholds are not met in any of the
five years, 100% of the performance shares will be forfeited. Outstanding restricted shares receive dividends at the same rate as all other shareholders. 
Post
Termination and Other Benefits 
Each
of the benefits described below were chosen to support the company's objective of providing a total competitive pay program. Individual benefits do not directly affect decisions regarding other
benefits or pay components, except to the extent that all benefits and pay components must, in aggregate, be competitive, as previously discussed. 
Retirement
Benefits 
The
named U.S. officers participate in two Abbott-sponsored defined benefit plans: the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan and the Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan. These plans
are described in greater detail in the section of the proxy statement captioned "Pension Benefits". Mr. Bohuon's retirement benefit is accrued and paid in accordance with the French statutory
programs. The French Retirement Indemnity and the Social Security pension provide benefits based on years of service and compensation. 
Since
officers' Supplemental Pension Plan benefits cannot be secured in a manner similar to qualified plans, which are held in trust, officers receive an annual cash payment equal to the increase in
present value of their Supplemental Pension Plan benefit. Officers have the option of depositing these annual payments to an individually established grantor trust, net of tax withholdings. Deposited
amounts may be credited with the difference between the officer's actual annual trust earnings and the rate used to calculate trust funding (currently eight percent). Amounts deposited in the
individual trusts are not tax deferred. Since amounts contributed to the trust have already been taxed, Abbott remits the tax owed on the income earned by the trust or any company adjustment paid to
the trust, thus preserving the parity of the benefit to those payable under the Annuity Retirement Plan. The manner in which the grantor trust will be distributed to an officer upon retirement from
the company generally follows the manner elected by the officer under the Annuity Retirement Plan. Should an officer (or his spouse depending upon the pension distribution method elected by the
officer under the Annuity Retirement Plan) live beyond the actuarial life expectancy age used to determine the Supplemental Pension Plan benefit and therefore exhaust the trust balance, the
Supplemental Pension Plan benefit will be paid to the officer by Abbott. 
Deferred
Compensation 
U.S.
officers of the company, like all U.S. employees, are eligible to defer a portion of annual base salary, on a pre-tax basis, to the company's qualified 401(k) plan, up to the IRS
contribution limits. Officers are also eligible to defer up to 18% of their base salary, less contributions to the 401(k) plan, to a non-qualified plan. 100% of annual incentive awards
earned under the company's Performance Incentive Plan are also eligible for deferral to a non-qualified plan. Officers may defer these amounts to unfunded
book accounts or choose to have the amounts paid in cash on a current basis and deposited into individually established grantor trusts, net of tax withholdings. These amounts are credited annually
with earnings equivalent to the average prime rate over the previous thirteen months plus 2.25 percent. Amounts deposited in the individual trusts are not tax deferred. Since amounts
contributed to the trusts have already been taxed, Abbott remits the tax owed on the income earned by the trusts or any company adjustment paid to the trusts. Officers elect the manner in which the
assets held in their grantor trusts will be distributed to them upon retirement or other separation from the company. 
Change
in Control Arrangements 
Messrs. White,
Freyman and Bohuon do not have change in control agreements, however, Abbott's other executive officers have individual change in control agreements. The purpose of these
agreements is to aid in retention and recruitment, encourage continued attention and dedication to assigned duties during periods involving a possible change in control of the company and to protect
the earned benefits of the officer against adverse changes resulting from a change in control. The level of payments provided under the agreements is established to be consistent with market practice
as confirmed by data provided the Committee by its independent compensation consultant. These arrangements are described in greater detail in the section of the proxy captioned "Potential Payments
Upon Termination or Change in Control". 
Financial
Planning 
Named
officers are eligible for up to $10,000 of annual costs associated with estate planning advice, tax preparation and general financial planning fees. If an officer chooses to utilize this
benefit, fees for services received up to the annual allocation are paid by the company and are treated as imputed income to the officer who then is responsible for payment of all taxes due on the
fees paid by the company. 
Company
Automobile 
U.S.
named officers are eligible for use of a company-leased vehicle, with a lease term of 50 months. Seventy-five (75%) percent of the cost of the vehicle is imputed to the officer
as income. 
Company
Aircraft 
Non-business
related flights on corporate aircraft are covered by time-sharing lease agreements, pursuant to which certain costs associated with those flights are reimbursed in
accordance with Federal Aviation Administration regulations. Messrs. White and Freyman have such agreements and reimbursed the Company. 
Disability
Benefit 
In
addition to Abbott's standard disability benefits, the named officers are eligible for a monthly long-term disability benefit, which is described in greater detail in the section of the
proxy captioned, "Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control." 

15

 

SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES
To
further promote sustained shareholder return and to ensure the company's executives remain focused on both short and long-term objectives, the company has established share ownership
guidelines. Each officer has five years from the date appointed/elected to his/her position to achieve the ownership level associated with the position. The share ownership requirements are 175,000
shares for the Chief Executive Officer; 50,000 shares for Executive Vice Presidents and Senior Vice Presidents and 25,000 shares for all other officers. All named officers meet or substantially exceed
the guidelines. 
As
provided in Abbott's Stock Incentive Program, no award may be assigned, alienated, sold or transferred otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified
domestic relations order or as permitted by the Committee for estate planning purposes, and no award and no right under any award, may be pledged, alienated, attached or otherwise encumbered. All
members of senior management, including the company's executive officers, and certain other employees are required to clear any transaction involving company stock with the General Counsel prior to
entering into such transaction. 
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S COMPENSATION
The
company's performance for 2009 as previously described and as reflected in the company's financial statements included strong growth in sales, earnings and shareholder returns that placed Abbott
at the top of the health care peer group. Accordingly, in evaluating Mr. White's overall performance, the Committee determined that Mr. White exceeded his strategic and financial goals
for 2009. Therefore, in February 2010, the Committee awarded Mr. White a Performance Incentive Plan bonus of $3,900,000 for his performance in 2009, intended to recognize his leadership in
guiding the Company's strong performance. 
Other
2009 compensation approved for Mr. White by the Committee and Independent Directors of the Board, as appropriate, in February 2009 (the Committee's Charter requires the CEO's base salary
be approved by the Independent Directors of the Board) included a base salary increase of 3.0%, the average of the company's U.S. merit increase budget, to $1,861,700, a 325,000 share stock option
grant and a 230,000 share performance vesting restricted stock award. 
COMPLIANCE
The
Performance Incentive Plan and Incentive Stock Program, which are described above, are intended to comply with Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) to ensure deductibility. 
The
Committee reserves the flexibility to take actions that may be based on considerations in addition to tax deductibility. The Committee believes that shareholder interests are best served by not
restricting the Committee's discretion and flexibility in crafting compensation programs, even if such programs may result in certain non-deductible compensation expenses. Accordingly, the
Committee may from time to time approve components of compensation for certain officers that are not deductible. 
While
the Committee does not anticipate there would ever be circumstances where a restatement of earnings upon which any incentive plan award decisions were based would occur, the Committee, in
evaluating such circumstances, has discretion to take all actions necessary to protect the interests of shareholders up to and including actions to recover such incentive awards. Such circumstances
have never occurred. 
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT
The
Compensation Committee of the Board is primarily responsible for reviewing, approving and overseeing Abbott's compensation plans and practices, and works with management and the committee's
independent consultant to establish Abbott's executive compensation philosophy and programs. The Committee has reviewed and discussed the Compensation Discussion and Analysis with management and has
recommended to the Board that the Compensation Discussion and Analysis be included in this proxy statement. 
Compensation Committee 
W. D. Smithburg, Chairman, W. M. Daley, W. J. Farrell, H. L. Fuller, and W. A. Osborn. 

16



   




Performance Graph  

The following graph compares the change in Abbott's cumulative total shareholder return on its common shares with the Standard & Poor's 500 Index and the Standard & Poor's 500 Health
Care Index. Abbott's cumulative total shareholder returns have outperformed both the Standard & Poor's 500 Index and the Standard & Poor's 500 Health Care Index over the period shown on
the following graph. 




17


   




Summary Compensation Table  

The following table summarizes compensation awarded to, earned by, or paid to the named officers. The section of the proxy statement captioned "Compensation Discussion and
Analysis – Compensation Components" describes in greater detail the information reported in this table. 



Name and Principal Position
 
Year
 
Salary
($)
 
Stock
Awards
($) (1)
 
Option
Awards
($) (2) (3)
 
Non-Equity
Incentive
Plan
Compensation
($) (4)
 
Change in
Pension
Value and
Non-qualified
Deferred
Compensation
Earnings
($) (5)
 
All Other
Compensation
($) (6)
 
Total
($)





Miles D. White,
 
2009
 
$
1,852,319
 
$
12,449,900
 
$
3,016,000
 
$
3,900,000
 
$
4,286,007
 
$
709,770
 
$
26,213,996


Chairman of the Board,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Chief Executive Officer
 
2008
 
 
1,795,471
 
 
7,499,925
 
 
10,757,796
 
 
4,200,000
 
 
3,149,302
 
 
850,893
 
 
28,253,387


and Director
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
2007
 
 
1,726,936
 
 
7,355,600
 
 
14,774,465
 
 
4,050,000
 
 
2,998,887
 
 
1,048,661
 
 
31,954,549





Thomas C. Freyman,
 
2009
 
 
914,461
 
 
4,124,706
 
 
1,004,096
 
 
1,286,000
 
 
2,149,511
 
 
82,453
 
 
9,561,227


Executive Vice
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


President, Finance
 
2008
 
 
886,363
 
 
1,744,427
 
 
1,456,050
 
 
1,232,500
 
 
1,007,849
 
 
140,942
 
 
6,468,131


and Chief Financial
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Officer
 
2007
 
 
852,542
 
 
2,553,444
 
 
3,527,170
 
 
1,200,000
 
 
837,712
 
 
355,329
 
 
9,326,197





Olivier Bohuon,(7)(8)
 
2009
 
 
772,420
 
 
2,389,905
 
 
572,547
 
 
730,000
 
 
347,745
 
 
419,972
 
 
5,232,589


Executive Vice President,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Abbott Pharmaceutical
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Products Group
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





Laura J. Schumacher,
 
2009
 
 
799,350
 
 
2,479,154
 
 
602,272
 
 
1,075,000
 
 
677,765
 
 
90,519
 
 
5,724,060


Executive Vice President,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


General Counsel
 
2008
 
 
774,808
 
 
1,511,096
 
 
1,495,068
 
 
986,700
 
 
340,994
 
 
146,504
 
 
5,255,170


and Secretary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





James V. Mazzo,(9)
 
2009
 
 
640,866
 
 
2,615,750
 
 
0
 
 
349,000
 
 
91,701
 
 
6,696,768
 
 
10,394,085


Senior Vice President,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Abbott Medical Optics
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 







(1)In
accordance with recent changes in the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules, the amounts in this column represent the aggregate grant date fair value of the awards in
accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ASC Topic 718. Abbott determines grant date fair value by multiplying the number of shares granted by the average of the high and low
market prices of an Abbott common share on the award's date of grant.
(2)In
accordance with recent changes in the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules, the amounts in this column represent the aggregate grant date fair value of the awards in
accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ASC Topic 718. These amounts include the following aggregate grant date fair values attributable to replacement stock options issued
with respect to original option grants made before 2005: M. D. White, $0 for 2009, $4,705,196 for 2008, and $7,690,465 for 2007; T. C. Freyman, $0 for 2009, $0 for 2008,
and $2,084,610 for 2007; and, L. J. Schumacher, $0 for 2009 and $233,158 for 2008. Except for outstanding options that have a replacement option feature, options granted after 2004 do
not include a replacement option feature. When the exercise price of an option with a replacement option feature is paid (or, in the case of a non-qualified stock option, when the option's exercise
price or the withholding taxes resulting on exercise of that option are paid) with Abbott common shares held by the named officer, a replacement option may be granted for the number of shares used to
make that payment. Abbott uses the closing price of an Abbott common share on the business day before the exercise to determine the number of shares required to exercise the related option and the
exercise price of the replacement option. The replacement option is exercisable in full six months after the date of grant, and has a term expiring on the expiration date of the original option. Other
terms and conditions of the replacement option award are the same in all material respects to those applicable to the original grant.
(3)These
amounts were determined as of the option's grant date using a Black-Scholes stock option valuation model. These amounts are being reported solely for the purpose of
comparative disclosure in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission rules. There is no certainty that the amount determined using a Black-Scholes stock option valuation model
would be the value at which employee stock options would be traded for cash. For options, other than replacement options, the assumptions are the same as those 

18

 

described
in Note 9 entitled "Incentive Stock Program" of Abbott's Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in
Abbott's 2009 Annual Report on Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K. For replacement options, the model uses the following assumptions: expected volatility of 20% for 2008
and 19% for 2007, dividend yield ranging between 2.4% and 2.7% for 2008 and 2.0% and 2.3% for 2007, risk-free interest ranging between 1.1% and 2.5% for 2008 and 3.3% and 4.7% for 2007,
and an option life equal to 60% of the option's remaining term for 2008 and 61% for 2007. None of the named officers received any replacement options in 2009. 


(4)This
compensation is earned as a performance-based incentive bonus, pursuant to the 1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan. Additional information regarding
the Performance Incentive Plan can be found in the section of this proxy statement captioned, "Compensation Discussion and Analysis – Compensation Components –
Performance-Based Annual Cash Incentives."
(5)The
plan amounts shown below are reported in this column. 

For
Messrs. White and Freyman, the amounts shown alongside the officer's name are for 2009, 2008, and, 2007, respectively. For Messrs. Bohuon and Mazzo, the amount shown alongside the
officer's name is for 2009. For Ms. Schumacher, the amounts shown alongside the officer's name are for 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
Abbott
Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan 
M. D. White:
$92,697 / $39,754 / $4,004; T. C. Freyman: $149,401 / $48,295 / $4,106; L. J. Schumacher: $53,615 / $13,746;
and J. V. Mazzo: $13,826. 
Abbott
Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan 
M. D. White:
$4,122,782 / $2,879,022 / $2,521,122; T. C. Freyman: $1,995,107 / $944,230 / $809,653; L. J. Schumacher:
$611,459 / $294,370; and J. V. Mazzo: $77,875. 
French
Retirement Indemnity Pension 
O. Bohuon:
$347,745. 
Non-Qualified
Defined Contribution Plan Earnings 
The
totals in this column include reportable interest credited under the 1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan, the Abbott Laboratories 401(k) Supplemental Plan, and the 1986 Abbott
Laboratories Management Incentive Plan (although none of the named officers currently receives awards under this plan). 
M. D. White:
$70,528 / $230,526 / $473,761; T. C. Freyman: $5,003 / $15,324 / $23,953; L. J. Schumacher: $12,691 / $32,878;
and J. V. Mazzo: $0. 


(6)The
amounts shown below are reported in this column. 

For
Messrs. White and Freyman, the amounts shown alongside the officer's name are for 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. For Messrs. Bohuon and Mazzo the amounts shown alongside the
officer's name are for 2009. For Ms. Schumacher, the amounts shown alongside the officer's name are for 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
Earnings,
Fees and Tax Payments for Non-Qualified Defined Benefit and Non-Qualified Defined Contribution Plans (net of reportable interest included
in footnote 5). 
M. D. White:
$165,076 / $440,970 / $851,678; T. C. Freyman: $25,453 / $46,523 / $305,338; O. Bohuon: $0; L. J. Schumacher:
$22,042 / $65,974; and J. V. Mazzo: $0. 

Each
of the named officers' awards under the 1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan is paid in cash to the officer on a current basis and may be deposited into a grantor trust established
by the officer, net of maximum tax withholdings. The officers, other than Mr. Bohuon, have established grantor trusts in connection with the Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan and
the Abbott Laboratories 401(k) Supplemental Plan. Messrs. White, Freyman, and Ms. Schumacher have also established grantor trusts in connection with the 1986 Abbott Laboratories
Management Incentive Plan (although none of the named officers currently receives awards under this plan). These amounts include the earnings (net of the reportable interest included in footnote 5),
fees, and tax payments paid in connection with these grantor trusts. 

Employer
Contributions to Defined Contribution Plans 
M. D. White:
$92,616 / $89,773 / $86,347; T. C. Freyman: $45,723 / $44,318 / $42,627; O. Bohuon: $0; L. J. Schumacher:
$39,968 / $38,740; and J. V. Mazzo: $0. 

For
Messrs. White and Freyman, and Ms. Schumacher, these amounts include employer contributions to both Abbott's tax-qualified defined contribution plan and the Abbott
Laboratories 401(k) Supplemental Plan. The Abbott Laboratories 401(k) Supplemental Plan permits Abbott's officers to contribute amounts in excess of the limit set by the Internal Revenue Code for
employee contributions to 401(k) plans up to the excess of (i) 18% of their base salary over (ii) the amount contributed to Abbott's tax-qualified 401(k) plan. Abbott matches
participant contributions at the rate of 250% of the first 2% of compensation contributed to the Plan. The named officers have these amounts paid to them in cash on a current basis and deposited into
a grantor trust established by the officer, net of maximum tax withholdings. 



19

 



Other
Compensation 

Non-business
related flights on corporate aircraft are covered by time-sharing lease agreements, pursuant to which certain costs associated with those flights are reimbursed in
accordance with Federal Aviation Administration regulations. Messrs. White and Freyman have such agreements and reimbursed Abbott for non-business flights in accordance with those
agreements. 
The
following amounts are included in the totals in this column, which reflect Abbott's incremental cost less reimbursements for non-business related flights, M. D. White:
$151,885 / $139,683 / $103,292; and T. C. Freyman: $344 / $1,138 / $0. 
Abbott
determines the incremental cost for these flights based on the direct cost to Abbott, including fuel costs, parking, handling and landing fees, catering, travel fees, and other miscellaneous
direct costs. 
Included
in the totals shown in this column are costs associated with security for 2009 and 2008, respectively: M. D. White: $300,193 / $180,467; T. C. Freyman:
$0 / $38,309; and L. J. Schumacher: $0 / $10,697. Abbott determines the cost for these expenses based on its actual costs. The security is provided on the recommendation of
an independent security study. 
Also
included in the totals shown in the table is the cost of providing a corporate automobile less the amount reimbursed by the executive: M. D. White: $0 / $0 / $7,344;
T. C. Freyman: $10,933 / $10,654 / $7,364; O. Bohuon: $22,555; and L. J. Schumacher: $18,509 / $21,093; and J. V. Mazzo: $14,817. 
For
Ms. Schumacher, costs associated with financial planning are included: $10,000 / $10,000. 
For
Mr. Bohuon, tax equalization payments of $397,417 paid by Abbott to avoid double taxation relating to his work in France and the United States are included. 
For
Mr. Mazzo, pursuant to the terms of the employment agreement described in footnote 9 the following amounts are included: (i) a $2,325,000 cash payment, payable when Abbott
acquired Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. ("AMO"); (ii) a $2,325,000 cash payment, payable on the six-month anniversary of Abbott's acquisition of AMO and contingent on his
continued employment; and, (iii) as contemplated under his previous AMO employment agreement, tax gross-ups on these payments of $2,031,951. 
The
named officers are also eligible to participate in an executive disability benefit described on page 34. 



(7)Because
French employment relationships are contractual, Abbott has an employment agreement with Mr. Bohuon. It provides that he will be the Executive Vice President, Abbott
Pharmaceutical Products, fixes his base salary at 576,388 Euro per year, which will be reviewed and adjusted annually, and that he will participate in the 1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance
Incentive Plan. To perform his duties, Mr. Bohuon frequently must travel between the United States and France and was subject to tax in both countries. His employment agreement is designed to
mitigate the impact of this double taxation. Mr. Bohuon receives the French Retirement Indemnity, social security pensions and other benefit programs applicable to local French employees.
(8)Mr. Bohuon
is employed in France. All of the amounts reported on the table for Mr. Bohuon that were paid in Euro were converted to U.S. dollars at the
December 31, 2009 exchange rate of 1.43 U.S. dollars to the Euro, with the exception of his performance-based bonus under the 1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance
Incentive Plan, which was converted at the February 19, 2010 exchange rate of 1.35 U.S. dollars to the Euro.
(9)In
connection with its acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. ("AMO"), Abbott entered an agreement with J. V. Mazzo, AMO's chairman and chief executive officer.
Mr. Mazzo's agreement with Abbott provides he will serve as Senior Vice President, President, AMO, set his initial base salary at $775,000, and provides that future salary increases will be
based on merit according to overall performance and in line with Abbott's performance and merit criteria in accordance with other similarly situated officers of Abbott. In place of the payments due to
him under the change in control provisions of his previous AMO employment agreement, the agreement provides that he receive: (i) a $2,325,000 cash payment, plus a tax
gross-up, as contemplated under his previous AMO employment agreement, payable when Abbott acquired AMO; (ii) a $2,325,000 cash payment, plus an additional tax gross-up,
as contemplated under his previous AMO employment agreement, payable on the six-month anniversary of Abbott's acquisition of AMO and contingent on his continued employment;
(iii) a $1,500,000 cash payment, plus an additional tax gross-up, payable on the first anniversary of Abbott's acquisition of AMO and contingent on his continued employment; and,
(iv) a $1,500,000 cash payment plus an additional tax gross-up, on the eighteen month anniversary of Abbott's acquisition of AMO and contingent on his continued employment. It also
provides that he is eligible to participate in Abbott's performance incentive plan, with a participation target of 100% of his base salary.
Pursuant to the agreement, he was also granted 30,000 shares of restricted stock which vest ratably over three years and 20,000 shares of restricted stock of Abbott, which will vest after eighteen
months of employment. These shares of restricted stock are described in the 2009 Grants of Plan-Based Awards table on page 21. 

20



   




2009 Grants of Plan-Based Awards  




 


 
 
 
 
Estimated Future
Payouts Under
Non-Equity Incentive
Plan Awards (1)
 
Estimated
Future
Payouts
Under Equity
Incentive
Plan Awards
Target  (#)  (2)  (3)
 
All Other
Stock
Awards:
Number of
Shares of
Stock or
Units (#)
 
All Other
Option
Awards:
Numbers of
Securities
Underlying
Options (#) (6)
 
Exercise
or Base
Price
of
Options
Awards
($/Sh.)
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
Closing
Market
Price
on
Grant
Date
 
 
 


 
 
 
 

 
Grant Date Fair
Value of Stock
and Option
Awards
 


Name
 
Grant
Date
 
Target
($)
 
Maximum
($)
 



 


M. D. White
 
02/20/09
 
 
 
 
 
230,000
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
12,449,900
(7)


 
 
02/20/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
325,000
 
$
54.14
 
$
54.03
 
 
3,016,000
(8)



 


T. C. Freyman
 
02/20/09
 
 
 
 
 
76,200
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4,124,706
(7)


 
 
02/20/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
108,200
 
 
54.14
 
 
54.03
 
 
1,004,096
(8)



 


O. Bohuon
 
02/20/09
 
 
 
 
 
35,500
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,921,615
(7)


 
 
08/01/09
 
 
 
 
 
10,300
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
468,290
(7)


 
 
02/20/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50,400
 
 
54.14
 
 
54.03
 
 
467,712
(8)


 
 
08/01/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14,500
 
 
45.48
 
 
44.99
 
 
104,835
(8)



 


L. J. Schumacher
 
02/20/09
 
 
 
 
 
45,800
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2,479,154
(7)


 
 
02/20/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
64,900
 
 
54.14
 
 
54.03
 
 
602,272
(8)



 


J. V. Mazzo
 
02/26/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20,000
(4)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,046,300
(7)


 
 
02/26/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30,000
(3)(5)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,569,450
(7)



 




(1)Each
of the named officers participates in the 1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan, an annual, non-equity incentive plan. The annual cash incentive
award earned by the named officer in 2009 under the plan is shown in the Summary Compensation Table under the column captioned "Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation." No future payouts
will be made under the plan's 2009 annual cash incentive award. The Performance Incentive Plan is described in greater detail in the section of the proxy statement captioned, "Compensation
Discussion and Analysis – Compensation Components – Performance-Based Annual Cash Incentives."
(2)These
are performance-based restricted stock awards that have a 5-year term and vest upon Abbott reaching a minimum return on equity target, with no more than
one-third of the award vesting in any one year. In 2009, Abbott reached its minimum return on equity target and one-third of each of the awards made on February 20,
2009, vested on February 26, 2010. The equity targets are described in the section of the proxy statement captioned, "Compensation Discussion and Analysis – Compensation
Components – Long-Term Incentives – Equity Awards."
(3)In
the event of a grantee's death or disability or a change in control of Abbott, as defined in Abbott Laboratories' Incentive Stock programs, these awards are deemed fully earned.
Outstanding restricted shares receive dividends at the same rate as all other shareholders.
(4)These
are restricted shares granted as a retention award and will vest on August 26, 2010.
(5)These
are restricted shares granted as a retention award. One-third of these shares vested on February 26, 2010. An additional third will vest on February 26, 2011. The
final third will vest on February 26, 2012.
(6)One-third
of the shares covered by these options are exercisable after one year; two-thirds after two years; and all after three years. The options vest in the
event of the grantee's death or disability or a change in control of Abbott. Under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, these options have an exercise price equal to the
average of the high and low market prices (rounded-up to the next even penny) of an Abbott common share on the date of grant. These options do not contain a replacement option feature.
(7)Abbott
determines the grant date fair value of stock awards by multiplying the number of restricted shares granted by the average of the high and low market prices of an Abbott common
share on the grant date.
(8)These
values were determined as of the option's grant date using a Black-Scholes stock option valuation model. The model uses the assumptions described in Note 9,
entitled "Incentive Stock Program" of Abbott's Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplemental Data" in Abbott's 2009 Annual
Report on Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K. 



21


   




2009 Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End  

The following table summarizes the outstanding equity awards held by the named officers at year-end. 






 
 
Option Awards (1)
 
Stock Awards





Name
 
Number of
Securities
Underlying
Unexercised
Options (#)
Exercisable
 
Number of
Securities
Underlying
Unexercised
Options (#)
Unexercisable
 
Equity
Incentive
Plan
Awards:
Number of
Securities
Underlying
Unexercised
Unearned
Options (#)
 
Option
Exercise
Price ($)
 
Option
Expiration
Date
 
Number of
Shares or
Units of
Stock
That Have
Not
Vested (#)
 
Market Value
of Shares or
Units of
Stock That
Have Not
Vested ($)
 
Equity
Incentive Plan
Awards:
Number of
Unearned
Shares, Units
or Other
Rights That
Have Not
Vested (#)
 
Equity Incentive
Plan Awards:
Market or
Payout Value of
Unearned
Shares, Units
or Other Rights
That Have Not
Vested ($)





M. D. White
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46,667
(2)
$
2,519,551





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
89,999
(2)
 
4,859,046





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
230,000
(2)
 
12,417,700





 
 
675,674
 
 
 
 
 
$
53.6250
 
2/14/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
440,800
 
 
 
 
 
 
46.3400
 
2/17/15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
438,000
 
 
 
 
 
 
44.1600
 
2/16/16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
70,956
 
 
 
 
 
 
47.1000
 
2/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
262,464
 
 
 
 
 
 
52.5500
 
2/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
366,667
 
183,333
(2)
 
 
 
52.5400
 
2/15/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
1,890
 
 
 
 
 
 
53.6000
 
2/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
346,704
 
 
 
 
 
 
53.6000
 
2/19/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
176,667
 
353,333
(2)
 
 
 
55.5600
 
2/14/18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
193,509
 
 
 
 
 
 
57.5800
 
2/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
487,181
 
 
 
 
 
 
57.5800
 
2/08/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
178,002
 
 
 
 
 
 
59.0300
 
2/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
325,000
(2)
 
 
 
54.1400
 
2/19/19
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






See footnotes on pages 27 and 28.




22

 



T. C. Freyman
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21,000
(2)
$
1,133,790
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9,200
(2)
$
496,708





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20,933
(2)
 
1,130,173





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
76,200
(2)
 
4,114,038





 
 
95,764
 
 
 
 
 
$
53.6250
 
2/14/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
63,800
 
 
 
 
 
 
46.3400
 
2/17/15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
83,000
 
 
 
 
 
 
44.1600
 
2/16/16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
26,572
 
 
 
 
 
 
52.5500
 
2/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
33,180
 
 
 
 
 
 
52.5500
 
2/19/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
74,667
 
37,333
(2)
 
 
 
52.5400
 
2/15/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
36,250
 
 
 
 
 
 
57.2400
 
2/08/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
16,384
 
 
 
 
 
 
54.3000
 
2/19/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
25,701
 
 
 
 
 
 
54.6700
 
2/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
56,835
 
 
 
 
 
 
57.0000
 
2/08/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
10,318
 
 
 
 
 
 
58.9000
 
2/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
25,602
 
 
 
 
 
 
58.9000
 
2/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
42,500
 
85,000
(2)
 
 
 
55.5600
 
2/14/18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
108,200
(2)
 
 
 
54.1400
 
2/19/19
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






See footnotes on pages 27 and 28.




23

 



O. Bohuon
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17,000
(2)
$
917,830
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6,800
(2)
$
367,132





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16,066
(2)
 
867,403





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35,500
(2)
 
1,916,645





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10,300
(2)
 
556,097





 
 
47,000
 
 
 
 
 
$
41.4800
 
4/23/16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
55,333
 
27,667
(2)
 
 
 
52.5400
 
2/15/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
32,567
 
65,133
(2)
 
 
 
55.5600
 
2/14/18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
26,311
 
 
 
 
 
 
54.0300
 
5/31/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
50,400
(2)
 
 
 
54.1400
 
2/19/19
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
14,500
(2)
 
 
 
45.4800
 
7/31/19
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






See footnotes on pages 27 and 28.




24

 



L. J. Schumacher
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10,000
(2)
$
539,900
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21,000
(2)
 
1,133,790
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9,200
(2)
$
496,708





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18,133
(2)
 
979,001





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45,800
(2)
 
2,472,742





 
 
14,363
 
 
 
 
 
$
53.6250
 
2/14/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
63,800
 
 
 
 
 
 
46.3400
 
2/17/15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
6,885
 
 
 
 
 
 
49.0800
 
2/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
83,000
 
 
 
 
 
 
44.1600
 
2/16/16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
74,667
 
37,333
(2)
 
 
 
52.5400
 
2/15/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
312
 
 
 
 
 
 
50.0300
 
2/12/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
12,114
 
 
 
 
 
 
50.0300
 
8/31/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
625
 
 
 
 
 
 
53.1200
 
2/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
1,857
 
 
 
 
 
 
58.1600
 
2/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
1,719
 
 
 
 
 
 
58.1600
 
2/08/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
1,742
 
 
 
 
 
 
58.1600
 
2/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
1,731
 
 
 
 
 
 
58.1600
 
2/19/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
36,834
 
73,666
(2)
 
 
 
55.5600
 
2/14/18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
9,042
 
 
 
 
 
 
55.6600
 
2/19/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
11,591
 
 
 
 
 
 
52.7400
 
2/19/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
4,120
 
 
 
 
 
 
57.3700
 
2/08/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
1,055
 
 
 
 
 
 
58.8600
 
2/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
7,340
 
 
 
 
 
 
58.8600
 
2/08/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
1,281
 
 
 
 
 
 
59.0100
 
2/10/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
1,086
 
 
 
 
 
 
59.0100
 
2/13/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
64,900
(2)
 
 
 
54.1400
 
2/19/19
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






See footnotes on pages 27 and 28.




25

 



J. V. Mazzo
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20,000
(2)
$
1,079,800
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30,000
(2)
 
1,619,700
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
98,470
(i)
 
 
 
 
$
21.9200
 
7/29/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
49,235
(i)
 
 
 
 
 
33.7600
 
4/29/13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
82,058
(i)
 
 
 
 
 
82.1900
 
5/20/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
75,904
(i)
 
 
 
 
 
93.1100
 
5/26/15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
133,838
(i)
 
 
 
 
 
55.9200
 
5/29/18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 







(i)Advanced
Medical Optics, Inc. ("AMO") granted these options to J. V. Mazzo prior to AMO's acquisition by Abbott. As part of the acquisition, Abbott assumed all of AMO's
outstanding and unexercised stock options and converted them into options to purchase Abbott common shares. 
See also footnotes on pages 27 and 28. 

26

 
Footnotes to Outstanding Equity Awards table: 

(1)Except
as noted, these options are fully vested.
(2)The
vesting dates of outstanding unexercisable stock options and unvested restricted stock awards at December 31, 2009 are as follows: 







 
 
Option Awards
 
Stock Awards





Name
 
Number of
Unexercised
Shares
Remaining
from
Original
Grant
 
Number of
Option Shares
Vesting – Date Vested 2010
 
Number of
Option Shares
Vesting – Date Vested 2011
 
Number of
Option Shares
Vesting – Date Vested 2012
 
Number
of
Restricted
Shares
 
Number of
Restricted
Shares
Vesting – Date
Vested 2010
 
Number of
Restricted
Shares
Vesting – Date
Vested 2011
 
Number of
Restricted
Shares
Vesting – Date
Vested 2012





M. D. White
 
183,333
 
183,333 – 2/16
 
 
 
 
 
46,667
 
(a
)
 
 
 





 
 
353,333
 
176,667 – 2/15
 
176,666 – 2/15
 
 
 
89,999
 
(b
)
 
 
 





 
 
325,000
 
108,334 – 2/20
 
108,333 – 2/20
 
108,333 – 2/20
 
230,000
 
(c
)
 
 
 





T. C. Freyman
 
37,333
 
37,333 – 2/16
 
 
 
 
 
21,000
 
21,000 – 2/16   
 
 
 
 





 
 
85,000
 
42,500 – 2/15
 
42,500 – 2/15
 
 
 
9,200
 
(a
)
 
 
 





 
 
108,200
 
36,067 – 2/20
 
36,067 – 2/20
 
36,066 – 2/20
 
20,933
 
(b
)
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
76,200
 
(c
)
 
 
 





O. Bohuon
 
27,667
 
27,667 – 2/16
 
 
 
 
 
17,000
 
17,000 – 2/16   
 
 
 
 





 
 
65,133
 
32,567 – 2/15
 
32,566 – 2/15
 
 
 
6,800
 
(a
)
 
 
 





 
 
50,400
 
16,800 – 2/20
 
16,800 – 2/20
 
16,800 – 2/20
 
16,066
 
(b
)
 
 
 





 
 
14,500
 
4,834 – 8/01
 
4,833 – 8/01
 
4,833 – 8/01
 
35,500
 
(c
)
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10,300
 
(d
)
 
 
 





L. J. Schumacher
 
37,333
 
37,333 – 2/16
 
 
 
 
 
10,000
 
10,000 – 3/01   
 
 
 
 





 
 
73,666
 
36,833 – 2/15
 
36,833 – 2/15
 
 
 
21,000
 
21,000 – 2/16   
 
 
 
 





 
 
64,900
 
21,634 – 2/20
 
21,633 – 2/20
 
21,633 – 2/20
 
9,200
 
(a
)
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18,133
 
(b
)
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45,800
 
(c
)
 
 
 





J. V. Mazzo
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20,000
 
20,000 – 8/26   
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30,000
 
10,000 – 2/26   
 
10,000 – 2/26
 
10,000 – 2/26







27

 


(a)These
are the restricted shares that remained outstanding and unvested on December 31, 2009, from an award made on February 16, 2007. The award has a 5-year
term, with no more than one-third of the original award vesting in any one year upon Abbott reaching a minimum return on equity target, measured at the end of the relevant year. In 2009,
Abbott reached its minimum return on equity target and these shares vested on February 26, 2010.
(b)These
are the restricted shares that remained outstanding and unvested on December 31, 2009, from an award made on February 15, 2008. The award has a 5-year
term with no more than one-third of the original award vesting in any one year upon Abbott reaching a minimum equity target, measured at the end of the relevant year. In 2009, Abbott
reached its minimum return on equity target and one-half of the unvested shares vested on February 26, 2010.
(c)These
are the restricted shares that remained outstanding and unvested on December 31, 2009, from an award made on February 20, 2009. The award has a 5-year
term, with no more than one-third of the original award vesting in any one year upon Abbott reaching a minimum return on equity target, measured at the end of the relevant year. In 2009,
Abbott reached its minimum return on equity target and one third of these shares vested on February 26, 2010.
(d)These
are the restricted shares that remained outstanding and unvested on December 31, 2009, from an award made on August 1, 2009. The award has a 5-year
term, with no more than one-third of the original award vesting in any one year upon Abbott reaching a minimum return on equity target, measured at the end of the relevant year. In 2009,
Abbott reached its minimum return on equity target and one third of these shares will vest on August 1, 2010. 

28


   




2009 Option Exercises and Stock Vested  

The following table summarizes for each named officer the number of shares the officer acquired on the exercise of stock options and the number of shares the officer acquired on the vesting of stock
awards in 2009: 






 
 
Option Awards
 
Stock Awards





Name
 
Number of
Shares Acquired
On Exercise (#)
 
Value
Realized
On Exercise ($)
 
Number of
Shares Acquired
On Vesting (#)
 
Value
Realized
On Vesting ($)





M. D. White
 
489,364
 
$
1,576,328
 
138,000
 
$
7,182,052





T. C. Freyman
 
20,882
 
 
92,507
 
29,200
 
 
1,518,500





O. Bohuon
 
70,800
 
 
569,768
 
23,668
 
 
1,181,600





L. J. Schumacher
 
2,983
 
 
179
 
27,100
 
 
1,409,230





J. V. Mazzo
 
0
 
 
0
 
0
 
 
0







29


   




Pension Benefits  

The named officers, other than Mr. Bohuon, participate in two Abbott-sponsored defined benefit pension plans: the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan, a tax-qualified
pension plan; and the Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan, a non-qualified supplemental pension plan. Mr. Bohuon participates in the Retirement Indemnity pension for
Abbott's eligible employees in France who are covered by the Syntec Convention Collective agreement. Abbott has adopted the Supplemental Pension Plan to provide the portion of the Annuity Retirement
Plan benefit that cannot be paid from the Annuity Retirement Plan due to the pay and benefit amount limitations set by the Internal Revenue Code. The Supplemental Pension Plan also includes a benefit
feature Abbott uses to attract officers who are at the mid-point of their career. This feature provides an additional benefit that is most valuable to officers who are
mid-career hires and is less valuable to officers who have spent most of their career at Abbott. Except as provided in Abbott's change in control agreements, Abbott does not have a policy
granting extra years of credited service under the plans. These change in control agreements are described on pages 34 and 35. 
The
compensation considered in determining the pensions payable to the named officers, other than Mr. Bohuon, is the compensation shown in the "Salary" and "Non-Equity Incentive
Plan Compensation" columns of the Summary Compensation Table on page 18. The compensation considered in determining the pension payable to Mr. Bohuon is the compensation shown in the
"Salary" column of that table. 
Annuity Retirement Plan  

The Annuity Retirement Plan covers most employees in the United States, age 21 or older and provides participants with a life annuity benefit at normal retirement equal to A plus the greater of
B or C below. 

A.1.10%
of 5-year final average earnings multiplied by years of benefit service after 2003.
B.1.65%
of 5-year final average earnings multiplied by years of benefit service prior to 2004 (up to 20); plus 1.50% of 5-year final average earnings multiplied
by years of benefit service prior to 2004 in excess of 20 (but no more than 15 additional years); less 

0.50%
of the lesser of 3-year final average earnings (but not more than the social security wage base in any year) or the social security covered compensation level multiplied by years of
benefit service. 


C.1.10%
of 5-year final average earnings multiplied by years of benefit service prior to 2004. 
The
benefit for service prior to 2004 (B or C above) is reduced for the cost of preretirement surviving spouse benefit protection. The reduction is calculated using formulas based on age and
employment status during the period in which coverage was in effect. 
Final
average earnings are the average of the 60 highest-paid consecutive calendar months of compensation (salary and non-equity incentive plan compensation) out of the last
120 months worked. The Annuity Retirement Plan covers earnings up to the limit imposed by Internal Revenue Code Section 401(a)(17) and provides for a maximum of 35 years of
benefit service. 
Participants
become fully vested in their pension benefit upon the completion of five years of service. The benefit is payable on an unreduced basis at age 65. Employees hired after 2003 who
terminate prior to age 55 with at least 10 years of service may choose to commence their benefits on an actuarially reduced basis as early as age 55. Employees hired prior to 2004
who terminate prior to age 50 with at least 10 years of service may choose to commence their benefits on an actuarially reduced basis as early as age 50. Employees hired prior to
2004 who terminate prior to age 50 with less than 10 years of service may choose to commence their benefits on an actuarially reduced basis as early as age 55. 
The
Annuity Retirement Plan offers several optional forms of payment, including certain and life annuities, joint and survivor annuities, and level income annuities. The benefit paid under any of
these options is actuarially equivalent to the life annuity benefit produced by the formula described above. 
Employees
who retire from Abbott prior to their normal retirement age may receive subsidized early retirement benefits. Employees hired after 2003 are eligible for early retirement at age 55
with 10 years of service. Employees hired prior to 2004 are eligible for early retirement at age 50 with 10 years of service or age 55 if the employee's age plus years of
benefit service total 70 or more. Messrs. White and Freyman are eligible for early retirement benefits under the plan. 
The
subsidized early retirement reductions applied to the benefit payable for service after 2003 (A above) depend upon the participant's age at retirement. If the participant retires after
reaching age 55, the benefit is reduced 5 percent per year for each year that payments are made before age 62. If the participant retires after reaching age 50 but prior to
reaching age 55, the benefit is actuarially reduced from age 65. 
The
early retirement reductions applied to the benefit payable for service prior to 2004 (B and C above) depend upon age and service at retirement: 

•In
general, the 5-year final average earnings portions of the benefit are reduced 3 percent per year for each year that payments are made before
age 62 and the 3-year final average earnings portion of the benefit is reduced 5 percent per year for each year that payments are made before age 62. 

30

 

•Employees
who participated in the plan before age 36 may elect "Special Retirement" on the last day of any month after reaching age 55 with age plus Seniority
Service points of at least 94 or "Early Special Retirement" on the last day of any month after reaching age 55 provided their age plus Seniority Service points would reach at least 94 before
age 65. Seniority service includes periods of employment prior to attaining the minimum age required to participate in the plan. If Special Retirement or Early Special Retirement applies,
seniority service is used in place of benefit service in the formulas. The 5-year final average earnings portions of the benefit in B above are reduced 12/3 percent
for each year between ages 59 and 62 plus 21/2 percent for each year between ages 55 and 59. The 3-year final average earnings portion of the benefit is
reduced 5 percent per year for each year that payments are made before age 62. Benefit C is payable on an unreduced basis at Special Retirement and is reduced 3 percent per
year for each year that payments are made before age 62, if Early Special Retirement applies. 
Supplemental Pension Plan  

With the following exceptions, the provisions of the Supplemental Pension Plan are substantially the same as those of the Annuity Retirement Plan: 

•Officers'
5-year final average earnings are calculated using the average of the 5 highest years of base earnings and the 5 highest years of payments under
Abbott's non-equity incentive plans.
•The
Annuity Retirement Plan does not include amounts deferred or payments received under the Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan in its calculation of a
participant's final average earnings. To preserve the pension benefits of Deferred Compensation Plan participants, the Supplemental Pension Plan includes amounts deferred by a participant under the
Deferred Compensation Plan in its
calculation of final average earnings. Beginning in the year following their election as an officer, Abbott officers are no longer eligible to defer compensation under the Deferred Compensation Plan.
•In
addition to the benefits outlined above for the Annuity Retirement Plan, officers are eligible for a benefit equal to 0.6% of 5-year final average earnings
for each year of service for each of the first 20 years of service occurring after the participant attains age 35. The benefit is further limited by the maximum percentage allowed under the
Annuity Retirement Plan under that plan's benefit formulas (A, B and C above). The portion of this additional officer benefit attributable to service prior to 2004 is reduced 3 percent per year
for each year that payments are made before age 60. The portion attributable to service after 2003 is reduced 5 percent per year for each year that payments are made before age 60 if the
participant is at least age 55 at early retirement. If the participant is under age 55 at retirement, the portion attributable to service after 2003 is actuarially reduced from age 65.
•The
Supplemental Pension Plan provides early retirement benefits similar to those provided under the Annuity Retirement Plan. The benefits provided to officers under the
Supplemental Pension Plan are not, however, reduced for the period between age 60 and age 62, unless the benefit is being actuarially reduced from age 65. Messrs. White and Freyman are eligible
for early retirement benefits under the plan.
•Vested
plan benefits accrued under the Supplemental Pension Plan may be funded through a grantor trust established by the officer. Consistent with the distribution
requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and its regulations, those officers who were elected prior to 2009 may have the entire amount of their vested plan benefits funded through a
grantor trust. Officers elected after 2008 may only have the vested plan benefits that accrue following the calendar year in which the officer is first elected funded through a grantor trust. Vested
plan benefits accrued through December 31, 2008, to the extent not previously funded, were distributed to the participants' individual trusts and included in the participants' income. 
Benefits
payable under the Supplemental Pension Plan are offset by the benefits payable from the Annuity Retirement Plan, calculated as if benefits under the plans commenced at the same time. The
amounts paid to an officer's Supplemental Pension Plan grantor trust to fund plan benefits are actuarially determined. The plan is designed to result in Abbott paying the officer's Supplemental
Pension Plan benefits to the extent assets held in the officer's trust are insufficient. 
Retirement Indemnity Pension  

The Retirement Indemnity pension provides a lump sum payment to eligible Abbott employees in France who are covered by the Syntec Convention Collective agreement. Since Mr. Bohuon has more than
five years of service with the company, on retirement he would receive a payment equal to one month's salary (based on the average of his base salary paid during the twelve-month period preceding the
date of retirement) plus one-fifth of a month's base salary multiplied by his years of service in excess of five years. To receive a payment, at retirement the participant must be at least
60 years old, eligible for an unreduced French Social Security pension, and employed by an Abbott entity governed by the Syntec Convention Collective agreement. 

31


   




Pension Benefits  




 


Name
 
Plan Name
 
Number Of Years
Credited Service (#)
 
Present Value of
Accumulated Benefit ($) (1)
 
Payments During
Last Fiscal Year ($)
 



 



M. D. White
 
Abbott Laboratories Annuity
Retirement Plan
 
25
 
$
497,337
 
$
0
 


 
 

 


 
 
Abbott Laboratories Supplemental
 
25
 
 
20,218,588
 
 
1,974,186
(2)


 
 
Pension Plan
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 



T. C. Freyman
 
Abbott Laboratories Annuity
Retirement Plan
 
30
 
 
660,273
 
 
0
 


 
 

 


 
 
Abbott Laboratories Supplemental
 
30
 
 
7,788,561
 
 
753,039
(2)


 
 
Pension Plan
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 


O. Bohuon
 
French Retirement Indemnity Pension
 
7
 
 
601,208
(3)
 
0
 



 



L. J. Schumacher
 
Abbott Laboratories Annuity
Retirement Plan
 
19
 
 
186,311
 
 
0
 


 
 

 


 
 
Abbott Laboratories Supplemental
 
19
 
 
1,571,375
 
 
174,437
(2)


 
 
Pension Plan
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 



J. V. Mazzo
 
Abbott Laboratories Annuity
Retirement Plan
 
1
 
 
13,826
 
 
0
 


 
 

 


 
 
Abbott Laboratories Supplemental
 
1
 
 
77,875
 
 
0
 


 
 
Pension Plan
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 




(1)Abbott
calculates these present values using: (i) a 6.11% discount rate, the same discount rate it uses for Financial Accounting Standards Board ASC Topic 715
calculations for financial reporting purposes; and (ii) each plan's unreduced retirement age, which is age 62 under the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan and age 60 under the Abbott
Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan for those officers who are eligible for early retirement benefits and is age 65 under both plans for other officers. The present values shown in the table
reflect postretirement mortality, based on the Financial Accounting Standards Board ASC Topic 715 assumption (the RP2000 Combined Healthy table), but do not include a factor for preretirement
termination, mortality, or disability.
(2)Consistent
with the distribution requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and its regulations, vested Supplemental Pension Plan benefits, to the extent not previously
funded, were distributed to the participants' individual grantor trusts and included in the participants' income. Amounts held in the officer's individual trust are expected to offset Abbott's
obligations to the officer under the plan. During 2009, the amounts shown, less applicable tax withholdings, were deposited in such individual trusts established by the named officers.
(3)The
present value of Mr. Bohuon's accumulated benefit was converted from Euro to U.S. dollars at the December 31, 2009 exchange rate of 1.43 U.S. dollars
to the Euro. 

32

 

2009 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation  

The following table summarizes J. V. Mazzo's non-qualified deferred compensation under two Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. ("AMO") plans: the Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan and the 2005 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan. These plans were in place when Abbott acquired control of AMO on February 25, 2009. None of the other named officers has any
non-qualified deferred compensation. 






Name
 
Plan Name
 
Executive
contributions
in last FY
($)
 
Registrant
contributions
in last FY
($)
 
Aggregate
earnings in last
FY
($)  (4)
 
Aggregate
withdrawals/
distributions
($)
 
Aggregate
balance at
last FYE
($)  (5)






J. V. Mazzo
 
Executive Deferred Compensation Plan(1)(3)
 
$
0
 
$
0
 
$
102,291
 
$
0
 
$
643,978


 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
2005 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan(2)(3)
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
92,134
 
 
0
 
 
661,558







(1)Employee
contributions to the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan stopped in 2004.
(2)The
plan permits participants to defer up to 100% of their base salary and annual cash incentives and credited a participant's account with an amount equal to the employer matching
contributions that would have been made for the participant under AMO's tax-qualified defined contribution plan, if certain Internal Revenue Code limitations did not apply.
(3)Under
the plans, Participants may direct the investment of their deferral account into one or more of several funds chosen by the administrator, and their deferral account is credited
with investment returns based on the performance of the fund(s) selected. During 2009, the weighted average rate of return credited to Mr. Mazzo's accounts was 17.5 percent.

The
plans permit cash distributions either in the form of a lump sum payment or installments upon retirement (defined as age 55 with a minimum of five years of service, or age 65 with a minimum of one
year of service), termination of employment, or death. Participants make distribution elections each year, prior to any deferrals being made for that year, and only for the deferrals to be made in the
following calendar year. Under the 2005 plan, Mr. Mazzo's distributions must also comply with the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. Participants may make withdrawals
due to financial hardship, with the amount being limited to the amount needed to address the hardship. 
(4)The
amounts reported in this column are not included in the Summary Compensation Table.
(5)Because
Abbott acquired AMO in 2009, none of the amounts included in this column have been previously reported as compensation in Abbott's prior Summary Compensation Tables. 

33



   




Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control  
Potential Payments Upon Termination – Generally  

Abbott does not have employment agreements with Messrs. White or Freyman, or Ms. Schumacher. Abbott's agreements with Mr. Bohuon and Mr. Mazzo are described in
footnotes 7 and 9, respectively, of the Summary Compensation Table on page 18. Mr. Bohuon's agreement provides that upon termination of employment by Abbott, other than for gross
or willful misconduct, he will be paid the amounts described below. Mr. Mazzo's agreement does not provide for payments upon termination or a change in control. 
The
following summarizes the payments that the named officers, other than Mr. Bohuon, would have received if their employment had terminated on December 31, 2009. Earnings, fees, and tax
payments would have continued to be paid for the named officer's Performance Incentive Plan, Management Incentive Plan, and Supplemental 401(k) Plan grantor trusts, until the trust assets were
fully distributed and fees would have continued to be paid for the named officer's Supplemental Pension Plan grantor trust, until its assets were fully distributed. The amount of these payments would
depend on the period over which the trusts' assets were distributed, tax rates, and the trusts' earnings and
fees. If the trusts' assets were distributed over a ten-year period and based on current tax rates, earnings, and fees, the named officers would receive the following average annual
payments over such 10-year period: M. D. White, $796,339; T. C. Freyman, $69,753; and, L. J. Schumacher, $181,233. In addition, the following
one-time deposits would have been made under the Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan for each of the following named officers, respectively, M. D. White,
$2,730,902; T. C. Freyman, $1,933,148; L. J. Schumacher, $266,243; and, J. V. Mazzo, $50,589. As Messrs. White and Freyman are eligible to retire, each
of them would be eligible to begin to receive the pension benefits described on pages 30 to 32. If the termination of employment was due to disability, then the following named officers also
would have received, in addition to Abbott's standard disability benefits, a monthly long-term disability benefit in the amount of $162,500 for M. D. White; $53,583 for
T. C. Freyman; $44,792 for L. J. Schumacher, and $14,542 for J. V. Mazzo. This long-term disability benefit would continue for up to
18 months following termination of employment. It ends if the officer retires, recovers, dies or ceases to meet eligibility criteria. 
In
addition, if the named officer's employment (including Mr. Bohuon's) had terminated due to death or disability, the officer's unvested stock options and restricted shares would have vested
on December 31, 2009 with values as set forth below in the section captioned, "Accelerated Vesting of Equity Awards." 
Abbott's
French employees, including Mr. Bohuon, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. As an employee covered by a collective bargaining agreement, if his employment is terminated by
Abbott for any reason, other than gross or willful misconduct, Mr. Bohuon is entitled to a lump sum cash payment equal to: (i) one-third of the monthly average of the
aggregate of his base salary at the time of termination, the bonus he was paid and certain other benefits he received during the preceding twelve-month period, multiplied by his years of
service with the company, not to exceed the amount of the total cash compensation paid to him during the preceding twelve months, plus (ii) three months of base salary, based on the average
salary he received over the last 12 months prior to his termination or any higher amount if it corresponds to the salary he would have received during the notice period under the agreement if
he is released from performing the services, plus (iii) accrued but unpaid vacation time up until the end of the notice period. In addition, he would be entitled to coverage under Abbott's
health and welfare benefits plans for nine months following the date of termination. If Mr. Bohoun's employment had terminated as described above on December 31, 2009, he would have been
entitled to receive a cash payment of $636,962 and health and welfare benefits of $15,285. 
Potential Payments Upon Change in Control  

Messrs. White, Freyman, and Bohuon do not have change in control agreements with Abbott. 
Abbott
has change in control arrangements with the rest of its management team, in the form of change in control agreements for Abbott officers and a change in control plan for other key management
personnel. The agreements with Ms. Schumacher, and Mr. Mazzo, are described below. 
The
agreements with Ms. Schumacher, and Mr. Mazzo, continue in effect until December 31, 2012, and at the end of each year will automatically be extended through the third year
thereafter unless Abbott notifies the officer that the agreement will not be extended. The agreements also automatically extend for two years following any change in control (see below) that occurs
while they are in effect. 
The
agreements provide that if the officer is terminated other than for cause or permanent disability or if the officer elects to terminate employment for good reason (see below) or within two years
following a change in control of Abbott (including termination by the officer for any reason during the thirty-day window period which begins six months after the date of a change in
control), the officer is
entitled to receive a lump sum payment equal to three times the officer's annual salary and annual incentive ("bonus") award (assuming for this purpose that all target performance goals have been
achieved or, if higher, based on the average bonus for the last three years), plus any unpaid bonus owing for any completed performance period and the pro rata bonus for any current bonus period
(based on the highest of the bonus assuming achievement of target performance, the average bonus for the past three years, or in the case of the unpaid bonus for any completed performance period, the
actual bonus earned). If the officer is terminated other 

34

 


than for cause or permanent disability or if the officer elects to terminate employment for good reason during a potential change in control (see below), the officer is entitled to receive a lump sum
payment of the annual salary and bonus payments described above, except that the amount of the bonus to which the officer is entitled will be based on the actual achievement of the applicable
performance goals. If the potential change in control becomes a "change in control event" (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code), the officer will be entitled to
receive the difference between the bonus amounts the officer received upon termination during the potential change in control and the bonus amounts that would have been received had such amounts
instead been based on the higher of the officer's target bonus or the average bonus paid to the officer in the preceding three years. Bonus payments include payments made under the Performance
Incentive Plan. The officer will also receive up to three years of additional employee benefits (including welfare benefits; three years of outplacement services and tax and financial counseling; and
the value of three more years of pension accruals), and payment of any excise taxes imposed under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code and other related taxes for which the officer is
responsible as a result of receiving payments and benefits in connection with a change in control. The agreements also limit the conduct for which awards under Abbott's incentive stock programs can be
terminated and generally permit options to remain exercisable for the remainder of their term. Independent compensation consultants confirm that the level of payments provided under the agreements is
consistent with current market practice. 
For
purposes of the agreements, the term "change in control" includes the following events: any person becoming the beneficial owner of Abbott securities representing twenty percent or more of the
outstanding voting power (not including an acquisition directly from Abbott and its affiliates); a change in the majority of the members of the board of directors whose appointment was approved by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the incumbent directors; and the consummation of certain mergers or similar corporate transactions involving Abbott. A "potential change in control" under
the agreements includes, among other things, Abbott's entry into an agreement that would result in a change in control. Finally, the term "good reason" includes: a significant adverse change in the
executive's position, duties, or authority; the company's failure to pay the executive's compensation or a reduction in the executive's base pay or benefits; or the relocation of the company's
principal executive offices to a location that is more than thirty-five miles from the location of the offices at the time of the change in control. 
If
a change in control had occurred on December 31, 2009, immediately followed by one of the covered circumstances described above, Ms. Schumacher and Mr. Mazzo would have been
entitled to receive the following payments and benefits under the change in control agreements: 

•Ms. Schumacher,
Cash termination payments – $6,710,200; Additional Supplemental Pension Plan benefits – $656,231; Welfare and
fringe benefits – $105,000; Excise tax reimbursements – $2,860,214.
•Mr. Mazzo,
Cash termination payments – $3,721,001; Additional Supplemental Pension Plan benefits – $496,539; Welfare and fringe
benefits – $105,000. 
To
determine the amount of the officer's excise tax reimbursement, Abbott has assumed that the named officer pays taxes at the highest marginal tax rate; that the price of an Abbott common share is
equal to the closing price of an Abbott common share on December 31, 2009; and that a portion of the payments and benefits is not subject to excise tax. 
Accelerated Vesting of Equity Awards  

Under the Abbott Laboratories' Incentive Stock Programs, upon a change in control, all outstanding stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units vest, including
performance-based restricted shares, which are deemed earned in full. If a change in control had occurred on December 31, 2009: 

•Mr. White
would have vested (1) in an aggregate of 861,666 unvested stock options with a value of $265,833, and (2) in an aggregate of 366,666
restricted shares with a value equal to $19,796,297.
•Mr. Freyman
would have vested (1) in an aggregate of 230,533 unvested stock options with a value of $54,133, and (2) in an aggregate of 127,333
restricted shares with a value equal to $6,874,709.
•Mr. Bohuon
would have vested (1) in an aggregate of 157,700 unvested stock options with a value of $163,512, and (2) in an aggregate of 85,666
restricted shares with a value equal to $4,625,107.
•Ms. Schumacher
would have vested (1) in an aggregate of 175,899 unvested stock options with a value of $54,133, and (2) in an aggregate of 104,133
restricted shares with a value equal to $5,622,141.
•Mr. Mazzo
would have vested in an aggregate of 50,000 restricted shares with a value equal to $2,699,500. 
The
value of stock options shown is based on the excess of the closing price of an Abbott common share on December 31, 2009 over the exercise price of such options, multiplied by the number of
unvested stock options held by the named officer. The value of restricted shares shown is determined by multiplying the number of restricted shares that would vest as of December 31, 2009 and
the closing price of an Abbott common share on December 31, 2009. 

35


   




Approval Process for Related Person Transactions  

It is Abbott's policy that the nominations and governance committee review, approve or ratify any transaction in which Abbott participates and in which any related person has a direct or indirect
material interest if such transaction involves or is expected to involve payments of $120,000 or more in the aggregate per fiscal year. Related person transactions requiring review by the nominations
and governance committee pursuant to this policy are identified in: 

•questionnaires
annually distributed to Abbott's directors and officers,
•certifications
submitted annually by Abbott officers related to their compliance with Abbott's Code of Business Conduct, or
•communications
made directly by the related person to the chief financial officer or general counsel. 
In
determining whether to approve or ratify a related person transaction, the nominations and governance committee will consider the following items, among others: 

•the
related person's relationship to Abbott and interest in the transaction;
•the
material facts of the transaction, including the aggregate value of such transaction or, in the case of indebtedness, the amount of principal involved;
•the
benefits to Abbott of the transaction;
•if
applicable, the availability of other sources of comparable products or services;
•an
assessment of whether the transaction is on terms that are comparable to the terms available to an unrelated third party or to employees generally;
•whether
a transaction has the potential to impair director independence; and
•whether
the transaction constitutes a conflict of interest. 
This
process is included in the nominations and governance committee's written charter, which is available on the corporate governance section of Abbott's investor relations Web site
(www.abbottinvestor.com). Abbott did not have any related person transactions in 2009 requiring nominations and governance committee approval under this policy. 

36

 


Ratification of Deloitte & Touche LLP as Auditors (Item 2 on Proxy Card)  

Abbott's bylaws provide that the audit committee shall appoint annually a firm of independent registered public accountants to serve as auditors. In October 2009, the audit committee appointed
Deloitte & Touche LLP to act as auditors for 2010. Deloitte & Touche LLP has served as Abbott's auditors since 2002. 
Although
the audit committee has sole authority to appoint auditors, it would like to know the opinion of the shareholders regarding its appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors
for 2010. For this reason, shareholders are being asked to ratify this appointment. If the shareholders do not ratify the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors for 2010, the
audit committee will take that fact into consideration, but may, nevertheless, continue to retain Deloitte & Touche LLP. 
The board of directors recommends a vote FOR ratification of the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors for
2010.
Representatives of Deloitte & Touche LLP are expected to be present at the Annual Meeting and will be given the opportunity to make a statement if they desire to
do so. They will also be available to respond to appropriate questions. 
Audit Fees and Non-Audit Fees  

The following table presents fees for professional audit services by Deloitte & Touche LLP, the member firms of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, and their respective affiliates (the "Deloitte
Entities") for the audit of Abbott's annual financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, and fees billed for other services rendered by the Deloitte
Entities during these periods. 



 
 
2009
 
2008


Audit fees: (1)
 
$
14,739,000
 
$
16,000,000


Audit related fees: (2)
 
 
133,000
 
 
155,000


Tax fees: (3)
 
 
567,000
 
 
987,000


All other fees: (4)
 
 
0
 
 
0


 
 

 



Total
 
$
15,439,000
 
$
17,142,000




(1)The
Deloitte Entities billed or will bill Abbott for professional services rendered for the audit of Abbott's annual financial statements, the review of Abbott's financial statements
included in Abbott's quarterly reports, and the audits of Abbott's internal control over financial reporting, statutory and subsidiary audits, the review of documents filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, and certain accounting consultations in connection with the audits.
(2)Audit
related fees include: accounting consultations and audits in connection with proposed acquisitions and divestitures, and consultations related to Abbott's internal control over
financial reporting.
(3)Tax
fees consist principally of professional services rendered by the Deloitte Entities for tax compliance and tax planning and advice including assistance with tax audits and
appeals, and tax advice related to mergers and acquisitions.
(4)No
fees for other service were incurred in 2009 or 2008. 
Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Auditor  

The audit committee has established policies and procedures to pre-approve all audit and permissible non-audit services performed by the Deloitte Entities. 
Prior
to engagement of the independent registered public accounting firm for the next year's audit, management will submit a schedule of all proposed services expected to be rendered during that year
for each of four categories of services to the audit committee for approval. 
Prior
to engagement, the audit committee pre-approves these services by category of service. The fees are budgeted and the audit committee requires the independent registered public
accounting firm and management to report actual fees versus the budget periodically by category of service. During the year, circumstances may arise when it may become necessary to engage the
independent registered public accounting firm for additional services not contemplated in the original pre-approval. In those instances, the audit committee requires specific
pre-approval before engaging the independent registered public accounting firm. 
The
audit committee may delegate pre-approval authority to one or more of its members. The member to whom such authority is delegated must report any pre-approval decisions to
the audit committee at its next scheduled meeting. 

37



   




Report of the Audit Committee  
Management
is responsible for Abbott's internal controls and the financial reporting process. The independent registered public accounting firm is responsible for performing an audit of the
consolidated financial statements and expressing an opinion on the conformity of those financial statements with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, as well as
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. The Audit Committee reviews these processes on behalf of the Board of Directors. In this context, the committee
has reviewed and discussed the audited financial statements contained in the 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K with Abbott's management and its independent registered public
accounting firm. 
The
committee has discussed with the independent registered public accounting firm the matters required to be discussed by the Statement on Auditing Standards No. 61
(Communication with Audit Committees), as amended, as adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. 
The
committee has received the written disclosures and the letter from the independent registered public accounting firm required by the applicable requirements of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board regarding the independent registered public accounting firm's communications with the Audit Committee concerning independence, and has discussed with the independent registered public
accounting firm their independence. The committee has also considered whether the provision of the services described on page 37 under the caption "Audit Fees and Non-Audit Fees" is
compatible with maintaining the independence of the independent registered public accounting firm. 
Based
on the review and discussions referred to above, the committee recommended to the Board of Directors that the audited financial statements be included in Abbott's Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Audit Committee 
R. S. Austin, Chair, D. A. L. Owen, S. C. Scott III, W. D. Smithburg, and G. F. Tilton 

Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  

Abbott believes that during 2009 its officers and directors complied with all filing requirements under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

Shareholder Proposals  

Two shareholder proposals have been received. Abbott is advised that the proposals will be presented for action at the Annual Meeting. The proposed resolutions and the statements made in support
thereof are presented below. 
The board of directors recommends that you vote AGAINST the proposals.  

38



   




Shareholder Proposal on Advisory Vote (Item 3 on Proxy Card)  

The Unitarian Universalist Association of Congregations, 25 Beacon Street, Boston, MA 02108 and three other proponents have informed Abbott that they intend to present the following proposal at the
meeting. Abbott will provide the proponents' names and addresses to any shareholder who requests that information and, if provided by a proponent to Abbott, the number of Abbott common shares held by
that proponent. The proposal should be opposed in our Proxy Statement. 
RESOLVED
– the shareholders of Abbott Labs, Inc. recommend that the board of directors adopt a policy requiring that the proxy statement for each annual meeting contain a proposal,
submitted by and supported by Company Management, seeking an advisory vote of shareholders to ratify and approve the board Compensation's Committee Report and the executive compensation policies and
practices set forth in the Company's Compensation Discussion and Analysis. 

Proponents' Statement in Support of Shareholder Proposal  

Investors are increasingly concerned about mushrooming executive compensation especially when it is insufficiently linked to performance 
In
2009 shareholders filed close to 100 "Say on Pay" resolutions. Votes on these resolutions averaged more than 46% in favor, and close to 25 companies had votes over 50% demonstrating strong
shareholder support for this reform. Investor, public and legislative concerns about executive compensation have reached new levels of intensity. 
An
Advisory Vote establishes an annual referendum process for shareholders about senior executive compensation. We believe this vote would provide our board and management useful information from
shareholders on the company's senior executive compensation especially when tied to an innovative investor communication program. 
In
2008 Aflac submitted an Advisory Vote resulting in a 93% vote in favor, indicating strong investor support for good disclosure and a reasonable compensation package. Chairman and CEO Daniel Amos
said, "An advisory vote on our compensation report is a helpful avenue for our shareholders to provide feedback on our pay-for-performance compensation philosophy and pay
package." 
Over
30 companies have agreed to an Advisory Vote, including Apple, Ingersoll Rand, Microsoft, Occidental Petroleum, Pfizer, Prudential, Hewlett-Packard, Intel, Verizon, MBIA, and PG&E. And nearly 300
TARP participants implemented the Advisory Vote in 2009, providing an opportunity to see it in action. 
Influential
proxy voting service RiskMetrics Group, recommends votes in favor, noting "RiskMetrics encourages companies to allow shareholders to express their opinions of executive compensation
practices by establishing an annual referendum process. An advisory vote on executive compensation is another step forward in enhancing board accountability." 
A
bill mandating annual advisory votes passed the House of Representatives, and similar legislation is expected to pass in the Senate. However, we believe companies should demonstrate leadership and
proactively adopt this reform before the law requires it. 
We
believe existing SEC rules and stock exchange listing standards do not provide shareholders with sufficient mechanisms for providing input to boards on senior executive compensation. In contrast,
in the United Kingdom, public companies allow shareholders to cast a vote on the "directors' remuneration report," which discloses executive compensation. Such a vote isn't binding, but gives
shareholders a clear voice that could help shape senior executive compensation. 
We
believe voting against the election of Board members to send a message about executive compensation is a blunt, sledgehammer approach, whereas an Advisory Vote provides shareowners a more effective
instrument. 
We
believe that a company that has a clearly explained compensation philosophy and metrics, reasonably links pay to performance, and communicates effectively to investors would find a management
sponsored Advisory Vote a helpful tool. 

Board of Directors' Statement in Opposition to the Shareholder Proposal on Advisory Vote (Item 3 on Proxy Card)  

The fundamental principle of corporate governance is to provide shareholders with an independent oversight body to govern a company for the benefit of its shareholders. Abbott's independent Board of
Directors is responsible for all aspects of governance, including compensation for executives, as well as Abbott's equity-based plans for all of Abbott's employees. Abbott has extremely robust
governance practices, which include executive compensation programs that are closely aligned with shareholder interests and annual grants of stock with performance vesting requirements. Shareholders
have recognized these attributes of Abbott's governance and executive compensation practices and have rejected this proposal each of the last three times it has been presented. 
An
advisory vote would ask shareholders to endorse or reject compensation decisions without the benefit of all the relevant information available to the Board of Directors, or to the Compensation
Committee members, or the benefit of their expertise. 

39

 


The Compensation Committee, composed entirely of independent directors, is responsible for bringing its knowledge and skill to the process of reviewing, approving and overseeing Abbott's compensation
plans and practices. The Committee determines executive compensation only after considering a multitude of factors, including the strategic and financial objectives of Abbott and the performance of
the individuals involved. The Committee considers both public and confidential information. In this process, the Committee uses comparative market data from dozens of other companies and retains
advisors, as appropriate, to provide expert advice on compensation variables and levels. 
The
Compensation Committee has determined that an executive compensation program designed around various elements of compensation, which includes base salaries, incentive bonuses, and various
performance-based equity awards, best meets its dual objectives of retaining highly talented executives and aligning compensation with shareholder returns. This program promotes the best interests of
shareholders. 
The
advisory vote called for by the proponent will not enhance Abbott's governance practices or improve accountability or communication with shareholders. Abbott has various accountability mechanisms
in place, such as its majority voting requirement and adherence to SEC rules requiring significant disclosure of compensation decisions and a comprehensive discussion of executive pay; as well as SEC,
NYSE, and IRS independence requirements for compensation committee members. Additionally, Abbott has established procedures to provide shareholders with a means to communicate directly with Board and
Committee members on any issue, including executive compensation. 
Moreover,
the U.S. Congress is considering legislation requiring an advisory vote on executive compensation. It would be premature for Abbott to implement a shareholder advisory vote procedure at this
time because aspects of the procedure may be inconsistent with federal legislation and the procedures may be superseded before they could be implemented. The Board believes that Abbott and its
shareholders are best served by monitoring legislative developments and promptly adopting any new practices related to executive compensation and shareholder advisory votes that are mandated by law or
regulation and applied to all companies equally. 
For
the foregoing reasons, the Board of Directors believes that an advisory vote is not in the best interests of Abbott's shareholders and is not in the best interests of Abbott. 
The board of directors recommends that you vote AGAINST the proposal.  

40

 


Shareholder Proposal on Special Shareholder Meetings (Item 4 on Proxy Card)  

Kenneth Steiner, 14 Stoner Avenue, 2M, Great Neck, New York 10021, has informed Abbott that he intends to present the following proposal at the meeting and that he owns 1,000 Abbott common shares. The
proposal should be opposed in our Proxy Statement. 
RESOLVED,
Shareowners ask our board to take the steps necessary to amend our bylaws and each appropriate governing document to give holders of 10% of our outstanding common stock (or the lowest
percentage allowed by law above 10%) the power to call a special shareowner meeting. This includes that a large number of small shareowners can combine their holdings to equal the above 10% of
holders. This includes that such bylaw and/or charter text will not have any exception or exclusion conditions (to the fullest extent permitted by state law) that apply only to shareowners but not to
management and/or the board. 

Proponent's Statement in Support of Shareholder Proposal  

A special meeting allows shareowners to vote on important matters, such as electing new directors that can arise between annual meetings. If shareowners cannot call a special meeting investor returns
may suffer. Shareowners should have the ability to call a special meeting when a matter merits prompt attention. This proposal does not impact our board's current power to call a special meeting. 
This
proposal topic won more than 60% support at the following companies in 2009: CVS Caremark (CVS), Sprint Nextel (S), Safeway (SWY), Motorola (MOT) and R. R. Donnelley (RRD). William Steiner and
Nick Rossi sponsored these proposals. 
The
merit of this Special Shareowner Meeting proposal should also be considered in the context of the need for improvements in our company's 2009 reported corporate governance status: 
The
Corporate Library www.thecorporatelibrary.com, independent investment research firm rated our company "D" with "High Governance Risk" and "High Concern" in executive pay –
$28 million for our CEO Miles White. 
David
Anthony Llewellyn Owen, Laurance Fuller, William Smithburg and Ann Reynolds had 13 to 29-years long-tenure – independence concern. Plus these directors were
assigned to 7 of 15 seats on our most important board committees. Plus, Ann Reynolds was designated as a "Flagged (Problem) Director" by The Corporate Library due to her directorship at Owens Corning,
which filed for bankruptcy. James Farrell was also designated as a "Flagged (Problem) Director" due to his directorship at UAL Corporation, which filed for bankruptcy. Robert Alpern owned only 75
shares. 
We
had no shareholder right to an independent board chairman or a lead director. Plus an 67% vote was required to amend our charter. We still had plurality voting. Shareholder proposals to address all
or some of these topics have received majority votes at other companies and each would be an excellent topic for our next annual meeting. 
The
above concerns show there is need for improvement. Please encourage our board to respond positively to this proposal: Special Shareowner Meetings – Yes on 4. 

Board of Directors' Statement in Opposition to the Shareholder Proposal on Special Shareholder Meetings (Item 4 on Proxy Card)  

The Company's By-Laws currently provide that a single shareholder or group of shareholders owning at least 20 percent of Abbott's outstanding shares may call a special meeting of
shareholders. This percentage threshold for the calling of a special meeting of shareholders is also consistent with the Illinois Business Corporation Act. The Board believes that this ownership
threshold provides an appropriate balance between ensuring the Board's accountability to a large percentage of shareholders and enabling the Board and management to operate the Company effectively.
Reducing this threshold to 10 percent would enable a small minority of shareholders, who may not be supported by or representative of the majority of shareholders, to unnecessarily divert
Company resources and time to matters that may be insignificant to the majority of shareholders or the long term strategic or financial goals of the Company. 
Special
shareholder meetings should be called for extraordinary events that have time urgency and can not be postponed until the next annual meeting. Permitting holders of only 10 percent of
Abbott's shares to call a special meeting for any purpose, at any time and as often as such shareholders wish, would impose significant administrative and financial burdens on Abbott, and distract the
management and Board from their proper focus of operating the business and maximizing financial returns. 
Additionally,
Abbott's existing corporate governance policies and practices enable all shareholders to express their concerns on important matters. Under the proxy rules and the Company's
By-Laws, shareholders may submit proposals for inclusion in Abbott's proxy statement, nominate directors for election, and present matters from the floor at the annual meeting. Each of
Abbott's directors serves a one-year term and stands for re-election at the annual meeting. The Company's By-Laws also provide that directors must be elected by a
majority vote in an uncontested election. Abbott's corporate governance documents do not contain super-majority voting provisions and Abbott does not have a shareholder rights plan (poison pill). 
As
described elsewhere in this proxy statement, shareholders also may communicate directly with the Board of Directors on important matters pertaining to Abbott's business. 

41

 

Accordingly,
the Board believes that Abbott's current By-Laws and governance practices ensure accountability to shareholders and enable the Board and management to operate Abbott
effectively. Approval of this proposal is neither necessary nor advisable. 
The board of directors recommends that you vote AGAINST the proposal.  

42


   




Other Matters  

In accordance with Abbott's articles of incorporation, Abbott has advanced defense costs on behalf of three former officers in connection with the United States Department of Justice's criminal and
civil investigation of Abbott's Depakote sales and marketing activities. 

Date for Receipt of Shareholder Proposals for the 2011 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement  

Shareholder proposals for presentation at the 2011 Annual Meeting must be received by Abbott no later than November 15, 2010 and must otherwise comply with the applicable requirements of the
Securities and Exchange Commission to be considered for inclusion in the proxy statement and proxy for the 2011 meeting. 

Procedure for Recommendation and Nomination of Directors and Transaction of Business at Annual Meeting  

A shareholder may recommend persons as potential nominees for director by submitting the names of such persons in writing to the chairman of the nominations and governance committee or the secretary
of Abbott. Recommendations should be accompanied by a statement of qualifications and confirmation of the person's willingness to serve. A nominee who is recommended by a shareholder following these
procedures will receive the same consideration as other comparably qualified nominees. 
A
shareholder entitled to vote for the election of directors at an Annual Meeting and who is a shareholder of record on: 

•the
record date for that Annual Meeting,
•the
date the shareholder provides timely notice to Abbott, and
•the
date of the Annual Meeting, 
may
directly nominate persons for director by providing proper timely written notice to the secretary of Abbott. 
That
notice must include the name, age, business address, residence address and principal occupation or employment of the nominee, the class and number of shares of Abbott owned by the nominee and any
other information relating to the nominee that is required to be disclosed in solicitations for proxies pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act. In addition, the notice must include the name and
record address of the nominating shareholder and the class and number of shares of Abbott owned by the nominating shareholder. 
A
shareholder of record on the record date for an Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the date the shareholder provides timely notice to Abbott, and on the date of the Annual Meeting of Shareholders may
properly bring business before the Annual Meeting by providing timely written notice to the secretary of Abbott. For each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before the Annual Meeting, the notice
must include a brief description of the business to be discussed, the reasons for conducting such business at the Annual Meeting, the name and record address of the shareholder proposing such
business, the class and number of shares of Abbott owned by the shareholder and any material interest of the shareholder in such business. 
To
be timely, written notice either to directly nominate persons for director or to bring business properly before the Annual Meeting must be received at Abbott's principal executive offices not less
than ninety days and not more than one hundred twenty days prior to the anniversary date of the preceding Annual Meeting. If the Annual Meeting is called for a date that is not within
twenty-five days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder must be received not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such
notice of the date of the Annual Meeting was mailed or made public in a press release or in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, whichever occurs first. To be timely for the 2011
Annual Meeting, this written notice must be received by Abbott no later than January 23, 2011. 

General  

It is important that proxies be returned promptly. Shareholders are urged, regardless of the number of shares owned, to vote their shares. Most of Abbott's shareholders may vote their shares by
telephone or the Internet. Shareholders who wish to vote by mail should sign and return their proxy card in the enclosed business reply envelope. Shareholders who vote by telephone or the Internet do
not need to return their proxy card. 
The
Annual Meeting will be held at Abbott's headquarters, 100 Abbott Park Road, located at the intersection of Route 137 and Waukegan Road, Lake County, Illinois. Admission to the meeting will be by
admission card only. A shareholder planning to attend the meeting should promptly complete and return the reservation form. Reservation forms must be received before April 16, 2010. An
admission card admits only one person. A shareholder may request two admission cards, but a guest must be accompanied by a shareholder. 



 
By order of the board of directors.
 



 

LAURA J. SCHUMACHER SECRETARY

 




43


   







 
EXHIBIT A



Director Independence Standard  

No director qualifies as "independent" unless the Board affirmatively determines that the director has no material relationship with Abbott or its subsidiaries (either directly or as a partner,
shareholder or officer of an organization that has a relationship with Abbott or any of its subsidiaries). In making this determination, the Board shall consider all relevant facts and circumstances,
including the following standards: 

•A
director is not independent if the director is, or has been within the last three years, an employee of Abbott or its subsidiaries, or an immediate family member is, or
has been within the last three years, an executive officer of Abbott or its subsidiaries.
•A
director is not independent if the director has received, or has an immediate family member who has received, during any twelve-month period within the last three years,
more than $120,000 in direct compensation from Abbott or its subsidiaries, other than director and committee fees and pension or other forms of deferred compensation for prior service (provided such
compensation is not contingent in any way on continued service), and other than amounts received by an immediate family member for service as an employee (other than an executive officer).
•A
director is not independent if (A) the director or an immediate family member is a current partner of a firm that is Abbott's internal or external auditor;
(B) the director is a current employee of such a firm; (C) the director has an immediate family member who is a current employee of such a firm and personally works on Abbott's or its
subsidiaries' audit; or (D) the director or an immediate family member was within the last three years a partner or employee of such a firm and personally worked on Abbott or its subsidiaries'
audit within that time.
•A
director is not independent if the director or an immediate family member is, or has been within the last three years, employed as an executive officer of another company
where any of the present executive officers of Abbott or its subsidiaries at the same time serves or served on that company's compensation committee.
•A
director is not independent if the director is a current employee, or an immediate family member is a current executive officer, of a company that has made payments to, or
received payments from, Abbott or its subsidiaries for property or services in an amount which, in any of the last three fiscal years, exceeds the greater of $1 million, or 2% of such other
company's consolidated gross revenues.
•A
director is not independent if the director is an executive officer of a charitable organization that received charitable contributions (other than matching contributions)
from Abbott and its subsidiaries in the preceding fiscal year that are in excess of the greater of $1 million or 2% of such charitable organization's consolidated gross revenues. 

A-1






Abbott Laboratories
100 Abbott Park Road
Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6400 U.S.A.
Notice of Annual Meeting
of Shareholders
and Proxy Statement  
 Meeting Date
April 23, 2010  

YOUR VOTE IS IMPORTANT!  Please sign and promptly return your proxy 
in the enclosed envelope or vote your 
shares by telephone or using the Internet. 


 Reservation Form for Annual Meeting  
I am a shareholder of Abbott Laboratories and plan to attend the Annual 
Meeting to be held at Abbott's headquarters, 100 Abbott Park Road, 
located at the intersection of Route 137 and Waukegan Road, Lake 
County, Illinois at 9:00 a.m. on Friday, April 23, 2010. 
Please
send me an admission card for each of the following persons. 



 
Name
 
 
 
Name
 
 



 



 
Address
 

 
 

Address
 

 



 



 
 City
 

 
 

City
 

 



 



 
 State
 

Zip Code
 

State
 

Zip Code



 

 

 




Phone Number (        )
                                         
            
 

Phone Number (        )
                                         
            



 
 

 
 

 
 

 





If you plan to attend the meeting, please complete and return the Reservation Form directly to Abbott Laboratories, Annual Meeting Ticket Requests,
D-0383 AP6D, 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6048. Due to space limitations, Reservation Forms must be received before April 16, 2010. An admission
card, along with a form of photo identification, admits one person. A shareholder may request two admission cards, but a guest must be accompanied by a shareholder.

To avoid a delay in the receipt of your admission card, do not return this form with your proxy card or mail it in the enclosed business envelope.




 
 



 
















002CS40127
  000000000.000000 ext 000000000.000000 ext 000000000.000000 ext
  000000000.000000 ext 000000000.000000 ext 000000000.000000 ext 000004 MR A
  SAMPLE DESIGNATION (IF ANY) ADD 1 ADD 2 ADD 3 ADD 4 ADD 5 ADD 6 0 2 4 3 6 6 1
  MR A SAMPLE (THIS AREA IS SET UP TO ACCOMMODATE 140 CHARACTERS) MR A SAMPLE
  AND MR A SAMPLE AND MR A SAMPLE AND MR A SAMPLE AND MR A SAMPLE AND MR A
  SAMPLE AND MR A SAMPLE AND MR A SAMPLE AND C 1234567890 J N T C123456789 1234
  5678 9012 345 Using a black ink pen, mark your votes with an X as shown in
  this example. Please do not write outside the designated areas. X 01504D 1 U
  PX + Annual Meeting Proxy Card . The Board of Directors recommends that you
  vote FOR Items 1 and 2. The Board of Directors recommends that you vote
  AGAINST Items 3 and 4. For Against Abstain 3. Shareholder Proposal - Advisory
  Vote To Vote FOR All Nominees To WITHHOLD Vote From All Nominees For, except
  vote withheld from the above nominee (s) For Against Abstain 2. Ratification
  of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors + 1. Election of 12 Directors
  Nominees: (01) R.J. Alpern, (02) R.S. Austin, (03) W.M. Daley, (04) W.J.
  Farrell, (05) H.L. Fuller, (06) W.A. Osborn, (07) D.A.L. Owen, (08) R.S.
  Roberts, (09) S.C. Scott III, (10) W.D. Smithburg, (11) G.F. Tilton, and (12)
  M.D. White 4. Shareholder Proposal - Special Shareholder Meetings IF VOTING
  BY MAIL, YOU MUST COMPLETE BOTH SIDES OF THIS CARD. Telephone and Internet
  Voting Instructions - You can vote by telephone OR Internet! Available 24
  hours a day, 7 days a week! Instead of mailing your proxy, you may choose one
  of the two voting methods outlined below to vote your proxy. • Call toll free
  1-800-652-VOTE (8683) in the USA, US territories & Canada any time on a
  touch tone telephone. There is NO CHARGE to you for the call. • Follow the
  simple instructions provided by the recorded message. To vote using the
  Telephone (within the USA, US territories & Canada) • Go to the following
  web site: www.investorvote.com • Enter the information requested on your
  computer screen and follow the simple instructions. To vote using the
  Internet [1]IF YOU HAVE
  NOT VOTED VIA THE INTERNET OR TELEPHONE, FOLD ALONG THE PERFORATION, DETACH
  AND RETURN THE BOTTOM PORTION IN THE ENCLOSED ENVELOPE.[1] 




 











. SOLICITED ON
  BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The undersigned, revoking previous proxies,
  acknowledges receipt of the Notice and Proxy Statement dated March 15, 2010,
  in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories
  to be held at 9:00 a.m. on April 23, 2010, at the corporation’s headquarters,
  and hereby appoints MILES D. WHITE and LAURA J. SCHUMACHER, or either of
  them, proxy for the undersigned, with power of substitution, to represent and
  vote all shares of the undersigned upon all matters properly coming before
  the Annual Meeting or any adjournments thereof. If the undersigned is a
  participant in the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan, then this card
  also instructs the plan’s Investment Committee to vote as specified at the
  2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and any adjournments thereof, all shares
  of Abbott Laboratories held in the undersigned’s plan account upon the
  matters indicated and in their discretion upon such other matters as may
  properly come before the meeting. INSTRUCTIONS: This proxy when properly executed
  will be voted in the manner directed herein by the undersigned shareholder.
  If no direction is made, this proxy will be voted FOR Items 1 and 2 and
  AGAINST Items 3 and 4 and in accordance with the judgment of the proxy
  holders on any other matters that are properly brought before the meeting.
  (Important - Please sign and date below.) Proxy — Abbott Laboratories
  Authorized Signatures - Sign Here - This section must be completed for your
  instructions to be executed. Each joint tenant should sign; executors,
  administrators, trustees, etc. should give full title and, where more than
  one is named, a majority should sign. Please read other side before signing.
  Signature 1 — Please keep signature within the box. Signature 2 — Please keep
  signature within the box. Date (mm/dd/yyyy) — Please print date below. + + IF
  VOTING BY MAIL, YOU MUST COMPLETE BOTH SIDES OF THIS CARD. [1]IF YOU HAVE NOT VOTED VIA THE
  INTERNET OR TELEPHONE, FOLD ALONG THE PERFORATION, DETACH AND RETURN THE
  BOTTOM PORTION IN THE ENCLOSED ENVELOPE.[1] 




 
 







