
DEF 14A
1
a06-2686_1def14a.htm
DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT





 


UNITED
  STATES


 




 


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION


 




 


Washington, D.C. 20549


 




 


 


 




 


 


 




 




SCHEDULE 14A




 




Proxy
  Statement Pursuant to Section 14(a) of
  the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Amendment No.     )




 




Filed by the Registrant  ý




 




Filed by a Party other than the
  Registrant  o




 




Check the appropriate box:




o


Preliminary Proxy Statement




o


Confidential, for
  Use of the Commission Only (as permitted by Rule 14a-6(e)(2))




ý


Definitive Proxy Statement




o


Definitive Additional Materials




o


Soliciting Material Pursuant to
  §240.14a-12




 




3M Company




(Name
  of Registrant as Specified In Its Charter)




 




N/A




(Name
  of Person(s) Filing Proxy Statement, if other than the Registrant)




 




Payment of Filing Fee (Check the
  appropriate box):




ý


No fee required.




o


Fee computed on table below per
  Exchange Act Rules 14a-6(i)(1) and 0-11.




 


(1)


Title of each class of securities to
  which transaction applies:




 


 


 




 


(2)


Aggregate number of securities to
  which transaction applies:




 


 


 




 


(3)


Per unit price or other underlying
  value of transaction computed pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0-11 (set forth
  the amount on which the filing fee is calculated and state how it was
  determined):




 


 


 




 


(4)


Proposed maximum aggregate value of
  transaction:




 


 


 




 


(5)


Total fee paid:




 


 


 




o


Fee paid previously with preliminary
  materials.




o


Check box if any part of the fee is
  offset as provided by Exchange Act Rule 0-11(a)(2) and identify the filing
  for which the offsetting fee was paid previously. Identify the previous
  filing by registration statement number, or the Form or Schedule and the date
  of its filing.




 


(1)


Amount Previously Paid:




 


 


 




 


(2)


Form, Schedule or Registration
  Statement No.:




 


 


 




 


(3)


Filing Party:




 


 


 




 


(4)


Date Filed:




 


 


 




 


 


Persons who are to respond to the
  collection of information contained in this form are not required to respond
  unless the form displays a currently valid OMB control number.
















George W.
Buckley
Chairman of the Board, President and
Chief Executive Officer



March 27, 2006






 
Dear Stockholder:
I am pleased to invite you to attend 3M’s Annual
Meeting of Stockholders, which will be held on Tuesday, May 9, 2006, at 10 a.m.,
at the RiverCentre, 175 West Kellogg Boulevard, St. Paul, Minnesota.
Details regarding admission to the meeting and the
business to be conducted are more fully described in the accompanying Notice of
Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement. I will report on Company operations and
discuss our plans for growth. There will also be time for your questions and
comments.
The fine attendance of our stockholders at Annual
Meetings over the years has been very helpful in maintaining good
communication. I sincerely hope you will be able to join us. Your attendance cards to the Annual Meeting are located on the back
cover of this proxy statement.
Your vote is important. Whether or not you plan to
attend the Annual Meeting, please vote as soon as possible. You may vote on the
Internet, by telephone, or by completing and mailing a traditional proxy card.
Please review the instructions on the proxy card regarding each of these voting
options.
Thank you for your ongoing
support of 3M.
Sincerely,





2006 ANNUAL MEETING OF
STOCKHOLDERS
NOTICE OF ANNUAL
MEETING AND PROXY STATEMENT
TABLE OF
CONTENTS




Notice of Annual Meeting of
  Stockholders


 


iii


 




Proxy
  Statement


 


1


 




Purpose of the Annual Meeting


 


1


 




Annual Meeting Admission


 


1


 




Quorum


 


1


 




Stockholders Entitled to Vote


 


1


 




Proposals You Are Asked to Vote On and the Board’s
  Voting Recommendations


 


2


 




Required
  Vote


 


3


 




Voting
  Methods


 


3


 




Changing
  Your Vote


 


4


 




Counting
  the Vote


 


4


 




Confidentiality


 


4


 




Results
  of the Vote


 


5


 




Delivery of Proxy Materials


 


5


 




List of Stockholders


 


5


 




Electronic Delivery of Proxy Materials and Annual
  Report


 


5


 




Cost of Proxy Solicitation


 


6


 




Transfer
  Agent


 


6


 




Governance of the Company


 


7


 




Corporate Governance Guidelines


 


7


 




Executive Sessions


 


7


 




Presiding Director


 


7


 




Communication with Directors


 


7


 




Director Independence


 


7


 




Director Nomination Process


 


9


 




3M Business Conduct Policies


 


11


 




Board Structure and Committee Membership


 


13


 




Audit
  Committee


 


14


 




Compensation Committee


 


14


 




Nominating and Governance Committee


 


15


 




Public Issues Committee


 


16


 




Director Compensation and Stock Ownership Guidelines


 


16


 




Proposals To Be Voted On


 


18


 




Proposal No. 1 — Election of Directors


 


18


 




i 


 




Proposal No. 2 — Ratification of the
  Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


 


22


 




Proposal No. 3 — Proposal to Amend the
  Company’s Certificate of Incorporation to Authorize the Annual Election of Directors


 


22


 




Proposal No. 4 — Stockholder Proposal
  Regarding Executive Compensation


 


24


 




Proposal
  No. 5 — Stockholder Proposal
  Regarding 3M’s  Animal Welfare Policy


 


27


 




Proposal No. 6 — Stockholder Proposal
  Regarding 3M’s Business
  Operations in
  China


 


29


 




Common Stock Ownership of Directors and Executive
  Officers


 


31


 




Beneficial Ownership Table


 


32


 




Security Ownership of More Than 5 Percent Stockholders


 


33


 




Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
  Compliance


 


34


 




Executive
  Compensation


 


34


 




Summary
  Compensation Table


 


34


 




Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year


 


36


 




Aggregated Option Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and
  Fiscal Year-End Option Values


 


37


 




Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards Table


 


38


 




Employment Contracts, Termination of Employment, and
  Change-in-Control Arrangements.


 


39


 




Retirement Benefits


 


46


 




Compensation Committee Report on Executive
  Compensation


 


47


 




Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
  Participation


 


51


 




Audit Committee Report


 


52


 




Audit Committee Policy on Pre-Approval of Audit and
  Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Registered Public
  Accounting Firm


 


52


 




Fees of the Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm


 


53


 




Stock Performance Graph


 


54


 




Requirements for Submission of Stockholder Proposals
  for Next Year’s Annual Meeting


 


55


 




Appendix
  A — Corporate Governance Guidelines


 


A-1


 




Appendix B — Audit Committee Charter


 


B-1


 




Appendix C — Compensation Committee Charter


 


C-1


 




Appendix
  D — Nominating and Governance Committee Charter


 


D-1


 




Appendix
  E — Public Issues Committee Charter


 


E-1


 




Appendix F —
  Certificate of Amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation


 


F-1


 




 
ii




3M COMPANY
3M Center, St. Paul, Minnesota 55144
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS




Time and Date


10:00 a.m.
  on Tuesday, May 9, 2006




Place


RiverCentre
  175 West Kellogg Boulevard
  St. Paul, Minnesota




Items
  of Business


(1)   To elect
  directors to a 3-year term.
(2)   To ratify the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 3M’s
  independent registered public accounting firm.
(3)   To approve an amendment to the Company’s Certificate of
  Incorporation to authorize
  the annual election of directors.  
(4)   To
  consider three stockholder proposals if
  properly presented at the meeting. See the Table of Contents for a
  description of the stockholder proposals.
(5)   To transact such other business as may properly come before the
  Annual Meeting.




Adjournments and
  Postponements


Any action on the items of
  business described above may be considered at the Annual Meeting at the time
  and on the date specified above or at any time and date to which the Annual
  Meeting may be properly adjourned or postponed.




Record Date


You are entitled to vote if
  you were a stockholder of record at the close of business on Friday,
  March 10, 2006.




Annual Report


Our 2005 Annual Report,
  which is not part of the proxy soliciting materials, is enclosed.




Meeting Admission


Either
  an admission ticket or proof of ownership of 3M stock, as well as a form of
  personal identification, must be presented in order to be admitted to the
  Annual Meeting. If you are a shareholder of record, your admission ticket is
  included on the back cover of this proxy statement. If your shares are held
  in the name of a bank, broker or other holder of record, you must bring a
  brokerage statement or other proof of ownership with you to the Meeting, or
  you may request an admission ticket in advance. Please refer to the section
  entitled “Annual Meeting Admission” on page 1 for further details.




Proxy Voting


Your vote is very important.
  Whether or not you plan to attend the Annual Meeting, we encourage you to
  read this proxy statement and submit your proxy card as soon as possible. You
  may submit your proxy card for the Annual Meeting by completing, signing,
  dating and returning your proxy card in the pre-addressed envelope provided,
  or, in most cases, by using the telephone or the Internet. For specific
  instructions on how to vote your shares, please refer to the section entitled
  “Voting Methods” on page 3 of this proxy statement and the voting
  instructions on the proxy card.




 






By
  Order of the Board of Directors,




 







 


GREGG
  M. LARSON




 


Associate
  General Counsel and Secretary



 
This
Proxy Statement and Proxy Card Are Being Distributed On Or About March 27,
2006.
iii




PROXY STATEMENT
The Board of Directors (the “Board”)
of 3M Company, a Delaware corporation (“3M” or the “Company”) is soliciting
proxies for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. You are receiving a proxy
statement because you own shares of 3M common stock that entitle you to vote at
the meeting. By use of a proxy, you can vote whether or not you attend the
meeting. The proxy statement describes the matters we would like you to vote on
and provides information on those matters so you can make an informed decision.
The information included in
this proxy statement relates to proposals to be voted on at the meeting (if
properly presented), the voting process, 3M’s Board and Board committees, the
compensation of directors and certain current and former executive officers,
and other required information.
Purpose
of the Annual Meeting
The purpose of the Annual
Meeting is to elect directors and to conduct the business described in the
Notice of Annual Meeting.
Annual Meeting
Admission
Only stockholders are invited
to attend the meeting. An
admission ticket or proof of ownership of 3M stock, along with personal
identification, must be presented in order to be admitted to the Annual
Meeting. If you are a stockholder of record, your admission ticket is on the
back of this proxy statement. If your shares are held in the name of a bank,
broker or other holder of record, you must bring a brokerage statement or other
proof of ownership with you to the Annual Meeting, or obtain an admission
ticket in advance. Tickets are also available on the Internet voting site —
www.eproxy.com/mmm. If you do not provide
photo identification or comply with the other procedures outlined above, you
will not be admitted to the Annual Meeting.
No cameras, recording equipment, electronic devices, large
bags, briefcases, or packages will be permitted in the Annual Meeting.
Quorum
A quorum is the minimum number
of shares required to hold a meeting. Under 3M’s Bylaws, a quorum requires that
a majority of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote at the meeting
must be represented in person or by proxy at the meeting. Both abstentions and
broker non-votes are counted as present for determining the presence of a
quorum. Broker non-votes, however, are not counted as shares present and
entitled to be voted with respect to the matter on which the broker has not
voted. Thus, broker non-votes will not affect the outcome of any of the matters
to be voted on at the Annual Meeting. Generally, broker non-votes occur when
shares held by a broker for a beneficial owner are not voted with respect to a
particular proposal because (1) the broker has not received voting
instructions from the beneficial owner and (2) the broker lacks
discretionary voting power to vote such shares.
Stockholders
Entitled to Vote
Each share of our common stock
outstanding as of the close of business on March 10, 2006, the record
date, is entitled to one vote at the Annual Meeting on each matter properly
brought before the meeting. As of that date, there were 754,595,730 shares of common
stock issued and outstanding.
1 


Most 3M
stockholders hold their shares through a stockbroker, bank, trustee, or other
nominee rather than directly in their own name. As summarized below, there are
some distinctions between shares held of record and those owned beneficially:
·       STOCKHOLDER
OF RECORD — If your shares are registered directly in your name with 3M’s
Transfer Agent, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., you are considered the stockholder of
record of those shares and these proxy materials are being sent directly to you
by 3M. As the stockholder of record, you have the right to grant your voting
proxy directly to 3M or to vote in person at the meeting.
·       BENEFICIAL
OWNER — If your shares are held in a stock brokerage account, by a bank,
trustee, or other nominee, you are considered the beneficial owner of shares
held in street name and these proxy materials are being forwarded to you by
your broker, trustee, or nominee who is considered the stockholder of record of
those shares. As the beneficial owner, you have the right to direct your
broker, trustee or nominee on how to vote and are also invited to attend the
meeting. However, since you are not the stockholder of record, you may not vote
these shares in person at the meeting. Your broker, trustee, or nominee is
obligated to provide you with a voting instruction card for you to use.
·       If your shares are held in
your account in the 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership
Plan or the 3M Savings Plan, you are considered the beneficial owner of these
shares and the trustee of the plans is the stockholder of record. Participants
in 3M’s Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M
Savings Plan may direct the trustee how to vote the shares allocated to their
account by following the voting instructions contained on the proxy card.
Participants in 3M’s Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership
Plan may also direct the trustee how to vote a proportionate number of
allocated shares of common stock for which it has not received direction, and
shares not allocated to individual participant accounts by following the same
voting instructions. If you fail to direct the trustee how to vote your shares
by following these voting instructions, the trustee will vote your shares as
described in the voting instructions.
Proposals
You Are Asked to Vote On and the Board’s Voting Recommendations
The following proposals are
scheduled to be voted on at the meeting. 3M’s Board recommends that you vote
your shares as indicated below.




Proposals:


The Board’s
   Voting Recommendations:




 1.   The election of directors for a 3-year
  term.


“FOR”
  each nominee
  to the Board




 2.   The
  ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 3M’s
  independent registered public accounting firm.


“FOR”




 3.   Proposal to amend the Company’s Certificate
  of Incorporation to authorize the annual election of
  directors.


“FOR”




 4. Consideration of a stockholder proposal regarding executive
  compensation.


“AGAINST”




 5. Consideration
  of a stockholder proposal regarding 3M’s animal welfare policy.


“AGAINST”




 6. Consideration
  of a stockholder proposal regarding 3M’s business operations in China.


“AGAINST”




 
2 


Other than the proposals
described in this proxy statement, the Board is not aware of any other matters
to be presented for a vote at the Annual Meeting. If you grant a proxy by
telephone, Internet, or by signing and returning your proxy card, any of the
persons named as proxy holders — George W. Buckley, 3M’s Chairman,
President and CEO, Edward A. Brennan, and Rozanne L. Ridgway — will have
the discretion to vote your shares on any additional matters properly presented
for a vote at the meeting. If any of our nominees is unavailable as a candidate
for director, the above-named proxy holders will vote your proxy for another
candidate or candidates as may be nominated by the Board of Directors.
Required Vote
Director Nominees —
The nominees for election as directors at the Annual Meeting will be elected by
a plurality of the votes cast at the meeting. This means that the director
nominee with the most votes for a particular slot is elected for that slot.
Votes withheld from one or more director nominees will have no effect on the
election of any director from whom votes are withheld. Our Corporate Governance
Guidelines, which appear in Appendix A in this proxy statement, set forth our
procedures if a director-nominee is elected, but receives a majority of “withheld”
votes. In an uncontested election (i.e., an election where the only nominees
are those recommended by the Board), any nominee for director who receives a
greater number of votes “withheld” from his or her election than votes “for”
such election is required to tender his or her resignation. The Nominating and
Governance Committee is required to make recommendations to the Board with
respect to any such letter of resignation. The Board is required to take action
with respect to this recommendation and to disclose their decision-making
process. Full details of this Policy are set out under “Proposal No. 1 —
Election of Directors” and in paragraph B6 of the Corporate Governance
Guidelines in Appendix A.
The Proposal to Amend the
Certificate of Incorporation — The affirmative “FOR”
vote by the holders of at least eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding common
stock entitled to vote is required to approve the amendment to the Company’s
Certificate of Incorporation. An abstention on this proposal is not an
affirmative vote and will have the same effect as a vote against this proposal.
All other proposals require
the affirmative “FOR” vote of a majority of those shares present in person or
represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the matter. If you
are a beneficial owner and do not provide the stockholder of record with voting
instructions, your shares may constitute broker non-votes, as described in the
section above entitled “Quorum.” In tabulating the voting result for any
particular proposal, shares that constitute broker non-votes are not considered
entitled to vote on that proposal. The stockholder proposals are presented as a
request to the Board to take action. Affirmative votes for these proposals will
inform the Board about the level of support for these proposals.
Voting Methods
If you hold shares directly as the stockholder of
record, you may vote by granting a proxy or, if you hold shares beneficially in
street name, by submitting voting instructions to your broker or nominee. If
you own shares beneficially as a participant in the 3M Voluntary Investment
Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M Savings Plan, you may vote by
submitting voting instructions to the trustee. In most instances, you will be
able to do this over the Internet, by telephone, or by mail. Please refer to
the summary instructions below and those included on your proxy card or, for
shares held in street name, the voting instruction card included by your broker
or nominee.
The Internet and
telephone voting procedures are designed to authenticate stockholders by use of
a control number and to allow you to confirm that your instructions have been
properly recorded. If you vote by telephone or on the Internet, you do not need
to return your proxy card. Telephone and 
3 


Internet
voting for stockholders of record will be available 24 hours a day, and will
close at 12:00 p.m. (Central Time) on the day before the Annual Meeting.
Participants in 3M’s Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership
Plan and the 3M Savings Plan may instruct the trustee how to vote their shares
via the Internet, by telephone, or by signing and returning the proxy card by
5:00 p.m. (Central Time) on May 4, 2006.
·       VOTE
BY INTERNET — www.eproxy.com/mmm — If you have Internet
access, you may submit your proxy from any location in the world 24 hours a
day, 7 days a week. Have your proxy card and the last four digits of your
Social Security Number in hand when you access the Web site. When prompted,
enter the last four digits of your Social Security Number, your 3-digit
company number and the 7-digit number from the upper right corner of the
proxy card to create an electronic ballot.
·       VOTE
BY TELEPHONE — 1-800-560-1965 — If you live in the
United States, you may use any touch-tone telephone to vote your proxy
toll-free 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Have your proxy card in hand when you
call. When prompted, enter the 3-digit company number and the 7-digit
number from the upper right corner of the proxy card. Follow the recorded
instructions.
·       VOTE
BY MAIL — You may do this by signing your proxy card or, for shares held
in street name, the voting instruction card included by your broker or nominee
and mailing it. If you provide specific voting instructions, your shares will
be voted as you instruct. If you sign, but do not provide instructions, your
shares will be voted as the Board recommends. Mark, sign, and date your proxy
card and return it in the postage-paid envelope provided so that it is received
by May 8, 2006.
All shares that have been
properly voted and not revoked will be voted at the Annual Meeting.
Changing Your Vote
You may change your proxy
instructions at any time prior to the vote at the Annual Meeting. For shares
held directly in your name, you may accomplish this by granting a new proxy or
by voting in person at the Annual Meeting. For shares held beneficially by you,
you may change your vote by submitting new voting instructions to your broker
or nominee.
Counting the Vote
In the election of directors, you may vote “FOR” all
of the nominees or your vote may be “WITHHELD” from one or more of the
nominees. For the other proposals, you may vote “FOR,” “AGAINST,” or “ABSTAIN.”
If you “ABSTAIN,” it has the same effect as a vote “AGAINST.”  If you sign your proxy card or broker voting
instruction card with no further instructions, your shares will be voted in
accordance with the recommendations of the Board. Shares held in your account
in the 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M
Savings Plan will be voted by the trustee as described in “Stockholders
Entitled to Vote” on page 1.
Representatives of Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A., 3M’s transfer agent, will tabulate the votes and act as the
inspectors of election.
Confidentiality
The Company’s Board of
Directors has a policy that all stockholder proxies, ballots, and tabulations
that identify stockholders are to be maintained in confidence. No such document
will be available for examination, and the identity and vote of any stockholder
will not be disclosed, except as necessary to meet legal requirements and allow
the inspectors of election to certify the results of the stockholder vote. The
policy also provides that inspectors of election for stockholder votes must be 
4 


independent
and cannot be employees of the Company. Occasionally, stockholders provide written
comments on their proxy card that may be forwarded to 3M management.
Results of the Vote
We will announce preliminary
voting results at the meeting and publish final results in our Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending June 30, 2006. A news
release with voting results will be available on our Web site www.3M.com/profile/pressbox/index.jhtml.
Delivery of Proxy Materials
Securities and Exchange Commission rules now
allow us to deliver a single copy of an annual report and proxy statement to
any household at which two or more stockholders reside, if we believe the
stockholders are members of the same family. This rule benefits both you
and the Company. We believe it eliminates irritating duplicate mailings that
stockholders living at the same address receive and it reduces our printing and
mailing costs. This rule applies to any annual reports, proxy statements,
proxy statements combined with a prospectus, or information statements. Each
stockholder will continue to receive a separate proxy card or voting
instruction card.
Your household may have received a single set of proxy
materials this year. If you prefer to receive your own copy now or in future
years, please request a duplicate set by contacting our transfer agent, Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. at 1-800-401-1952 (U.S.), 651-450-4064
(outside the U.S.), www.wellsfargo.com/shareownerservices, or in writing
to 161 North Concord Exchange, South St. Paul, MN 55075.
If a broker or other nominee
holds your shares, you may continue to receive some duplicate mailings. Certain
brokers will eliminate duplicate account mailings by allowing stockholders to
consent to such elimination, or through implied consent if a stockholder does
not request continuation of duplicate mailings. Since not all brokers and
nominees may offer stockholders the opportunity this year to eliminate
duplicate mailings, you may need to contact your broker or nominee directly to
discontinue duplicate mailings to your household.
List of Stockholders
The names of stockholders of
record entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting will be available at the Annual
Meeting and for ten days prior to the meeting for any purpose germane to the
meeting, between the hours of 7:45 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. (Central Time),
at our principal executive offices at 3M Center, St. Paul, Minnesota, by
contacting the Secretary of the Company.
Electronic
Delivery of Proxy Materials and Annual Report
We are able to distribute the
annual report and proxy statement to 3M stockholders in a fast and efficient
manner via the Internet. This reduces the amount of paper delivered to a
stockholder’s address and eliminates the cost of sending these documents by
mail. Stockholders may elect to view all future annual reports and proxy
statements on the Internet instead of receiving them by mail. If you choose to
view these materials online, you will continue to receive a proxy card in the
mail. You may make this election when voting your proxy this year: simply
follow the instructions to vote via the Internet or go directly to www.econsent.com/mmm
to register your consent. Have your account number (found above your name and
address on your dividend check stub) and your Social Security Number (if you
have one) available. Your election to view proxy materials online continues
until you revoke it. Future proxy cards will contain the Internet Web site
address and instructions to view the materials. You will continue to have the
option to vote your shares by telephone, mail, or via the Internet.
5 


Cost of Proxy Solicitation
3M will pay for the cost of
preparing, assembling, printing, mailing, and distributing these proxy
materials. You will need to obtain your own Internet access if you choose to
access the proxy materials and/or vote over the Internet. In addition to
mailing these proxy materials, the solicitation of proxies or votes may be made
in person, by telephone, or electronic communication by our directors,
officers, and employees, who do not receive any additional compensation for
these solicitation activities. We have hired Georgeson Shareholder
Communications, Inc. to assist us in the distribution of proxy materials
and the solicitation of votes. We will pay Georgeson Shareholder Communications, Inc. a fee of $20,000 plus expenses
for these services. We will also reimburse brokerage houses and other
custodians, nominees, and fiduciaries for their reasonable out-of-pocket
expenses for forwarding proxy and solicitation materials to beneficial owners
of stock.
Transfer Agent
Our Transfer Agent is Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. All
communications concerning stockholders of record accounts, including address
changes, name changes, common stock transfer requirements, and similar issues
can be handled by contacting Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. at 1-800-401-1952
(U.S.), 651-450-4064 (outside the U.S.), www.wellsfargo.com/shareownerservices,
or in writing, 161 North Concord Exchange, South St. Paul, MN 55075.
6




GOVERNANCE OF THE COMPANY
Corporate Governance Guidelines
The Board has adopted
Corporate Governance Guidelines that, along with the charters of the Board
committees, provide the framework for the governance of the Company. The Board’s
Nominating and Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing and reviewing
the Guidelines at least annually, and recommending any proposed changes to the
Board for approval. The Corporate Governance Guidelines are available on our
Web site at www.3M.com, under Investor Relations — Corporate
Governance. The Guidelines and charters of the Board committees are also
attached to this proxy statement as Appendices A-E.
Executive Sessions
Independent
directors regularly meet in executive sessions without the Chairman and CEO or other members of
management present to review the criteria upon which the performance of the
Chairman and CEO is based, the performance of the Chairman and CEO against that
criteria, to ratify the compensation of the Chairman and CEO as approved by the
Compensation Committee and to discuss any other relevant matters.
Presiding Director
The chairs of the Audit,
Compensation, Nominating and Governance, and Public Issues Committees of the
Board may chair executive sessions of the independent directors at which the
principal items to be considered are within the scope of the committee chair’s
authority. The Board believes that this practice ensures leadership at all
executive sessions of the independent directors.
Communication with Directors
The Board of Directors has
adopted the following process for stockholders and other interested parties to
send communications to members of the Board. Stockholders and other interested
parties may communicate with the  chairs of the Audit, Compensation,
Nominating and Governance, and Public Issues Committees of the Board, or
with any of our other independent directors, by sending a letter to the
following address: 3M Company, c/o Corporate Secretary, 3M Center, Building 0220-13-W-39,
St. Paul, MN 55144-1000.
Director Independence
The Board believes in having a substantial majority of
independent directors on the 3M Board. A director is “independent” if the Board
affirmatively determines that the director has no material relationship with 3M
(including its consolidated subsidiaries) directly or as a partner, shareholder
or officer of an organization that has a relationship with 3M. The Board has
established the following categorical “Director Independence Guidelines” to
assist it in determining director independence that conform to, or are more
exacting than the independence requirements in the New York Stock Exchange
listing standards (NYSE Rules). In addition to applying these guidelines, the
Board will consider all relevant facts and circumstances in making an
independence determination not only from the standpoint of the director, but
also from that of persons or organizations with which the director has an
affiliation.
7 


1.                In no event will a
director be considered independent if:
a.               Employment Relationship — A director is,
or has been within the last three years, an employee of 3M, or whose immediate
family member(1), is or has
been within the last three years, an executive officer of 3M;
b.              Payments >$100,000 — A director who
received, or whose immediate family member received, more than $100,000 per
year in direct compensation from 3M (other than director fees) within the last
three years;
c.               Auditor Relationships — (i) A director, or
whose immediate family member, is a current partner of 3M’s internal or
external auditor; (ii) a director is a current employee of such a firm; (iii) a
director has an immediate family member who is a current employee of such a
firm and who participates in the firm’s audit, assurance or tax compliance (but
not tax planning) practice; or (iv) a director, or whose immediate family
member, was within the last three years (but is no longer) a partner or
employee of such a firm who personally worked on 3M’s audit within that time;
d.              Compensation Committee Interlock — A 3M
executive officer is on the compensation committee of the board of directors of
a company which employs the 3M director or an immediate family member as an
executive officer;
e.               Commercial Relationships — A director is a
current employee, or an immediate family member is a current executive officer,
of a company that has made payments to, or received payments from, 3M for
property or services in an amount which, in of the last three years, exceeds
the greater of $1 million, or two percent of the director’s company’s
consolidated gross revenues.
2.                Audit Committee
members may not accept any consulting, advisory, or other compensatory fee from
3M, other than directors’ fees.
3.                The following
commercial relationships will not be considered to be material relationships
that would impair a director’s independence:
a.               If a 3M director is
an executive officer or employee, or if an immediate family member is an
executive officer, of another company that does business with 3M and the sales
by that company to 3M or purchases by that company from 3M, in any single year
within the last three years, are less than or equal to one percent of the
annual consolidated gross revenues of that company; or
b.              If a 3M director is
an executive officer or employee, or if an immediate family member is an
executive officer, of another company which is indebted to 3M, or to which 3M
is indebted, and the total amount of either company’s indebtedness to the
other, in any single year within the last three years, is less than or equal to
one percent of the other company’s total consolidated assets.
4.                Charitable
relationships will not be considered to be material relationships that would
impair a director’s independence if a 3M director or immediate family member
serves as an officer, director or trustee of a charitable organization, and 3M’s
discretionary charitable contributions to the organization are less than or
equal to one percent of that organization’s consolidated annual gross revenues.

(1)  New
York Stock Exchange Rule 303A(2)(b) defines “immediate family” to
include a person’s spouse, parents, children, siblings, mothers- and
fathers-in-law, sons- and daughters-in-law, brothers- and sisters-in-law, and anyone (other than employees) who share such person’s
home.
8 


5.                The Board will annually
make and publicly disclose its independence determination for each director.
The Board may determine that a director who has a relationship that exceeds the
limits described in paragraphs 3 (provided that such a relationship would not
constitute a bar to independence under the NYSE Rules) or 4 is nonetheless
independent. The Company will explain in the next proxy statement the basis for
any Board determination that a relationship is immaterial despite the fact that
it does not meet the categorical independence guidelines. For example, if a
director is the CEO of a company that purchases products and services from 3M
that are more than one percent of that company’s annual revenues, the
independent directors could determine, after considering all of the relevant
circumstances, that such a relationship was immaterial, and that the director
would be considered independent under the NYSE Rules.
6.                The Company will
not make any personal loans or extensions of credit to directors. All directors
are required to deal at arm’s length with 3M and its subsidiaries and to
disclose circumstances material to the director that might be perceived as a
conflict of interest.
In accordance with these guidelines, the Board
undertook its annual review of director independence. During this review, the
Board considered transactions and relationships between each director or any
member of his or her immediate family and the Company and its subsidiaries and
affiliates. The Board also considered whether there were any transactions or
relationships between directors or any member of their immediate family (or any
entity of which a director or an immediate family member is an executive
officer, general partner or significant equity holder). The Board considered
that in the ordinary course of business, transactions may occur between the
Company and its subsidiaries and companies at which some of our directors are
or have been officers. In each case, the amount of transactions from these
companies in each of the last three years did not approach the thresholds set
forth in the Director Independence Guidelines. The Board also considered
charitable contributions to not-for-profit organizations of which our directors
or immediate family members are executive officers, none of which approached
the levels set forth in our Director Independence Guidelines.
As a result of this review, the Board affirmatively
determined that the following directors are independent under these
guidelines:  Linda G. Alvarado, Edward A.
Brennan, Vance D. Coffman, Michael L. Eskew, Edward M. Liddy, Robert S.
Morrison, Aulana L. Peters, Rozanne L. Ridgway, Kevin W. Sharer, and Louis
W. Sullivan. The Board has also determined that no members of the Audit
Committee received any compensation from the Company other than directors’
fees. George W. Buckley is considered an inside director because of his
employment as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of
the Company.
Robert S. Morrison served as
the Company’s interim Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer from June 30,
2005 to December 6, 2005. During this period, he earned compensation
described in the Summary Compensation Table of this proxy statement. Based on
the New York Stock Exchange’s interpretation of its listing standards that employment
as an interim Chairman or Chief Executive Officer or other executive officer
shall not disqualify a director from being considered independent following
that employment, the Board concluded that neither Mr. Morrison’s service
as interim Chairman and Chief Executive Officer nor the compensation he earned
for performing this service should disqualify him from being considered “independent”
now that such service has ended following the hiring of Mr. Buckley.
Director Nomination Process
Role of the Nominating
and Governance Committee
The Nominating and Governance
Committee (“Committee”) identifies individuals that the Committee believes are
qualified to become Board members in accordance with the Board Membership
Criteria set forth below, and recommends selected individuals to the Board for 
9 


nomination
to stand for election at the next meeting of stockholders of the Company in
which directors will be elected. In the event there is a vacancy on the Board
between meetings of stockholders, the Committee identifies individuals that the
Committee believes are qualified to become Board members in accordance with the
Board Membership Criteria set forth below, and recommends one or more of such
individuals for appointment to the Board.
Nominees Proposed by
Stockholders for Consideration by the Committee
The Committee has a policy to consider properly
submitted stockholder nominees for candidates for membership on the Board of
Directors. Stockholders proposing individuals for consideration by the
Committee must include at least the following information about the proposed
nominee:  the proposed nominee’s name,
age, business or residence address, principal occupation or employment, and
whether such person has given written consent to being named in the proxy
statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected. Stockholders
should send the required information about the nominee to:
Corporate Secretary
3M Company
3M Center
Building 0220-13-W-39
St. Paul, MN 55144-1000.
In order for an individual
proposed by a stockholder to be considered by the Committee for recommendation
as a Board nominee, the Corporate Secretary must receive the proposal no later
than 5 p.m. Central Time on November 27, 2006. Such proposals must be
sent via registered, certified, or express mail (or other means that allows the
stockholder to determine when the proposal was received by the Company). The
Corporate Secretary will send properly submitted stockholder proposed
nominations to the Committee Chair for consideration at a future Committee
meeting. Individuals proposed by stockholders in accordance with these
procedures will receive the same consideration that individuals identified to
the Committee through other means receive.
Stockholder Nominations
In addition, 3M’s Bylaws
permit stockholders to nominate directors at an annual meeting of stockholders
or at a special meeting at which directors are to be elected in accordance with
the notice of meeting. Stockholders intending to nominate a person for election
as a director must comply with the requirements set forth in the Company’s
Bylaws. Our Bylaws require, among other things, that the Corporate Secretary
receive written notice from the record stockholder no earlier than January 9,
2007, and no later than February 8, 2007. The notice must contain the
information required by the Bylaws, a copy of which is available upon request
to the Corporate Secretary. Nominations received after February 8, 2007,
will not be acted upon at the Annual Meeting.
Director Qualifications
The Committee periodically reviews with the Board the
requisite skills and characteristics of its members. 3M’s Corporate Governance
Guidelines contain Board Membership Criteria that apply to nominees for a
position on 3M’s Board. The Committee periodically reviews with the Board the
appropriate skills and characteristics required of Board members given the
current Board composition. It is the intent of the Board that the Board,
itself, will be a high performance organization creating competitive advantage
for the Company. To perform as such, the Board will be comprised of individuals
who have distinguished records of leadership and success in their arena of
activity and who will make substantial contributions to Board operations and
effectively represent the interests of 
10 


all stockholders. The
Committee’s and the Board’s assessment of Board candidates includes, but is not
limited to, consideration of:
(i)               Roles and
contributions valuable to the business community;
(ii)            Personal qualities of
leadership, character, judgment, and whether the candidate possesses and
maintains throughout service on the Board a reputation in the community at
large of integrity, trust, respect, competence, and adherence to the highest
ethical standards;
(iii)         Relevant knowledge and
diversity of background and experience in such things as business,
manufacturing, technology, finance and accounting, marketing, international
business, government, and the like; or
(iv)         Whether the candidate is
free of conflicts and has the time required for preparation, participation, and
attendance at all meetings.
In addition to these minimum
requirements, the Committee will also evaluate whether the nominee’s skills are
complementary to the existing Board members’ skills, the Board’s needs for
particular expertise in fields such as business, manufacturing, technology,
financial, marketing, international, governmental, or other areas of expertise,
and assess the nominees’ impact on Board dynamics and effectiveness.
Identification,
Evaluation, and Selection of Nominees
The Committee periodically reviews the appropriate
size and composition of the Board and anticipates future vacancies and needs of
the Board. In the event the Committee recommends an increase in the size of the
Board or a vacancy occurs, the Committee considers qualified nominees from
several sources, including current Board members and nominees recommended by
stockholders and other persons.
The Committee may from time to time retain a director
search firm to help the Committee identify qualified director nominees for
consideration by the Committee.
The Committee evaluates
qualified director nominees at regular or special Committee meetings against
the current Board Membership Criteria described above and reviews qualified
director nominees with the Board. The Committee and the Chairman of the Board
interview candidates that meet the Board Membership Criteria and the Committee
selects nominees that best suit the Board’s current needs and recommends one or
more of such individuals for election to the Board.
3M Business Conduct Policies
More than a century of operating with honesty and
integrity has earned 3M trust from our customers, credibility with our
communities, and dedication from our employees. All of our employees, including
our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Principal Accounting
Officer, are required to abide by 3M’s business conduct policies to ensure that
our business is conducted in a consistently legal and ethical manner. These
policies form the foundation of a comprehensive process that includes
compliance with corporate policies and procedures and a companywide focus on
uncompromising honesty and integrity in every aspect of our operations. Our
business conduct policies cover many topics, including antitrust and
competition law, conflicts of interest, financial reporting, protection of
confidential information, and compliance with all laws and regulations
applicable to the conduct of our business.
Employees are required to report any conduct that they
believe in good faith to be an actual or apparent violation of the business
conduct policies. The Audit Committee has adopted procedures to receive,
retain, and treat complaints received regarding accounting, internal accounting
controls, or 
11 


auditing matters, and to allow
for the confidential and anonymous submission by employees of concerns
regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters.
The Board of Directors adopted a Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics for directors of the Company. This Code incorporates
long-standing principles of conduct the Company and the Board follow to ensure
the Company’s business and the activities of the Board are conducted with
integrity, adherence to the highest ethical standards, and in compliance with
the law.
The Company’s Business Conduct Policies for employees
and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors are available on our
web site at www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate
Governance.
12




BOARD STRUCTURE AND COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP
The Board is currently divided into three classes
serving staggered three-year terms. On February 23, 2006, the Board of
Directors approved an amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation to
declassify the Board and authorize the annual election of the Board of
Directors. The amendment is described in further detail in “Proposal No. 3”
and will be submitted for approval of the stockholders at the 2006 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders. If the amendment is approved by not less than 80 percent (80%) of the outstanding common stock
entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting, all directors will be elected annually
beginning with the 2007 Annual Meeting.
The Board currently has eleven directors and the
following four Committees: Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Governance, and
Public Issues. The membership during 2005 and the function of each Committee
are described below.
During 2005, the Board of Directors held six regularly
scheduled meetings and five special meetings. Five, four and one of our
incumbent directors attended 100, 91, and 82 percent, respectively, of the
regularly scheduled and special meetings of the Board and Board Committees on
which they served in 2005.
The Company has a long-standing policy that directors are
expected to attend the Annual Meeting of Stockholders unless extenuating
circumstances prevent them from attending. All but two directors attended last
year’s Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
The Board
and each Committee conducted an evaluation of their performance in 2005.




 Name of Director


 


 


 


Audit


 


 


 


Compensation


 


 


 


Nominating
  and
  Governance


 


 


 


Public
  Issues


 




 Nonemployee Directors:


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Linda G.
  Alvarado


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 




 Edward A.
  Brennan


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


*


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Vance D.
  Coffman


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Michael L.
  Eskew


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 




 Edward M.
  Liddy


 


 


 


 


X


*


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Robert S.
  Morrison(1)


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Aulana L.
  Peters


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


*


 




 Rozanne L.
  Ridgway


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


X


*


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Kevin W.
  Sharer


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 




 Louis W. Sullivan


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 




X = Committee Member; * = Chair
(1)            Robert S. Morrison
served as the Company’s interim Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
from June 30, 2005 to December 6, 2005. During that period he did not
serve on any committee of the Board. At the Board’s February 2006 meeting,
the Nominating and Governance Committee recommended and the Board approved the
appointment of Robert S. Morrison to the Compensation and Nominating and
Governance Committees.
13 


Audit Committee
In 2005, the Audit
Committee met eight times. The Committee assists the Board in its oversight of
the integrity of the Company’s financial statements, compliance with legal and
regulatory requirements, the qualifications, independence, and performance of
the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm (the “Independent
Accounting Firm”), and the performance of the Company’s internal auditing
department. In addition, the Committee:
·                    Reviews
the annual audited and quarterly consolidated financial statements;
·                    Reviews
the Company’s financial reporting process and disclosure and internal controls
and procedures, including major issues regarding accounting principles and
financial statement presentation, and critical accounting policies to be used
in the consolidated financial statements;
·                    Reviews
and discusses with management and the Independent Accounting Firm the Company’s
internal controls report and the Independent Accounting Firm’s attestation of
the report;
·                    By
delegation to the chair, reviews earnings press releases prior to issuance;
·                    Appoints,
oversees, and approves compensation of the Independent Accounting Firm;
·                    Reviews
with the Independent Accounting Firm the scope of the annual audit, including
fees and staffing, and approves all audit and permitted non-audit services
provided by the Independent Accounting Firm;
·                    Reviews
findings and recommendations of the Independent Accounting Firm and management’s
response to the recommendations of the Independent Accounting Firm;
·                    Discusses
policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management, the Company’s
major risk exposures, and the steps management has taken to monitor and
mitigate such exposures; and
·                    Reviews
compliance with the Company’s business conduct policies.
The Board of Directors has
determined that all of the Audit Committee members are “independent,” “financially
literate,” and have “accounting or related financial management expertise” under
the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The Board has also determined
that all of the Audit Committee members — Edward M. Liddy (chair), Linda G.
Alvarado, Vance D. Coffman, Michael L. Eskew, and Aulana L. Peters — are “audit
committee financial experts” as that term is defined by applicable SEC
regulations. The charter of the Audit Committee is available at www.3M.com
under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — Committee Composition and
attached as Appendix B to this proxy statement.
Compensation Committee
In 2005, the
Compensation Committee met seven times. The Committee reviews the Company’s
compensation practices and policies, annually reviews and approves (subject to
ratification by the independent directors of the Board) the compensation for
the CEO, annually reviews and approves the compensation for the other senior
executives, evaluates CEO performance, and annually prepares a report on
executive compensation for inclusion in the Company’s proxy statement. In
addition, the Committee:
·                    Approves,
subject to ratification by the independent directors of the Board, employment
agreements and severance arrangements for the CEO, as appropriate;
14 


·                    Approves
for the senior executives of the Company (other than the CEO) employment
agreements and severance arrangements, as appropriate; and
·                    Interprets
and supervises the administration of the Company’s stock and long-term
incentive compensation programs, and determines the employees who receive
awards and the size of their awards under such programs.
The Board of Directors has
determined that all Compensation Committee members are “independent” under the
New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The Board has also determined that
each Compensation Committee member qualifies as a “Non-Employee Director” under
Rule 16b-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that each member (except Robert S. Morrison due  to his service
as interim CEO), qualifies as an “outside director” under
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. The
charter of the Compensation Committee is available at www.3M.com under
Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — Committee Composition and attached
as Appendix C to this proxy statement.
Nominating
and Governance Committee
In 2005, the Nominating
and Governance Committee met four times. The Committee establishes Board
membership criteria, assists the Board by identifying individuals qualified to
become Board members, recommends to the Board matters of corporate governance,
facilitates the annual review of the performance of the Board and its
Committees, and periodically reviews CEO and management succession plans. In
addition, the Committee:
·                    Selects
and recommends candidates to the Board of Directors to be submitted for
election at the Annual Meeting and candidates to fill any vacancies on the
Board, including stockholder nominees for director (submitted in accordance
with the Company’s Bylaws). The Committee considers all candidates in light of
the Board membership criteria adopted by the Board of Directors;
·                    Reviews
and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning the composition
and size of the Board and its Committees, Board membership criteria, frequency
of meetings, and directors’ fees;
·                    Reviews
the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines at least annually, and recommends
any proposed changes to the Board for approval;
·                    Develops
and recommends to the Board standards to be applied in making determinations on
the types of relationships that constitute material relationships between the
Company and a director for purposes of determining director independence;
·                    Develops
and recommends to the Board for its approval an annual self-assessment process
of the Board and its Committees and oversees the process; and
·                    Reviews
periodically with the Chairman/CEO succession plans relating to positions held
by elected corporate officers, and makes recommendations to the Board with
respect to the selection of individuals to occupy these positions.
The Board of Directors has
determined that all Nominating and Governance Committee members are “independent”
under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The charter of the
Nominating and Governance Committee is available at www.3M.com under
Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — Committee Composition and attached
as Appendix D to this proxy statement.
15 


Public Issues Committee
In 2005,
the Public Issues Committee met three times. The Committee reviews public
policy issues and trends affecting the Company, reviews and advises with
respect to the Company’s
policies and practices relating to environmental, health and safety programs,
and reviews compliance with those programs, reviews and advises on human
resources issues relating to diversity issues and equal employment
opportunities, oversees the corporate contribution program and the activities
of the 3M Foundation, and reviews and approves the Company’s response to stockholder proposals relating to
public policy issues. In addition, the Committee:
·                    Monitors
the Company’s corporate citizenship activities; and
·                    Offers
advice, insights, and makes recommendations regarding policies, programs,
actions, and procedures which will enable this Company to continue to respond
appropriately to its social responsibilities and the public interest in its
business affairs, including such activities as those related to the
environment, human resources, labor, and community relations.
The Board of Directors has
determined that all Public Issues Committee members are “independent” under the
New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The charter of the Public Issues
Committee is available at www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate
Governance — Committee Composition and attached as Appendix E to this proxy
statement.
DIRECTOR COMPENSATION AND STOCK OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES
Employee directors do not receive any separate
compensation for their Board activities. Nonemployee directors receive the
compensation described below.
Each nonemployee director is entitled to receive an
annual cash retainer of $75,000, but may elect to defer payment of all or a
portion of the cash retainer through a deferred cash or common stock
equivalents account or may elect to receive common stock of the Company at
current fair market value, in lieu of the cash retainer. In addition, each
nonemployee director is entitled to receive $95,000 payable in May of each
year in common stock of the Company pursuant to the terms of the Company’s 1992
Directors Stock Ownership Program, but may elect to defer payment of all or a
portion of the equity retainer through a deferred common stock equivalents
account. The deferred stock units are determined based on the fair market value
of 3M common stock on the grant date. Information regarding accumulated stock
and deferred stock units is set forth in the section entitled “Common Stock
Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers.” 
Currently, 91 percent of director compensation
is paid in 3M stock or deferred stock units.
In addition to the annual retainer, nonemployee
directors who serve as committee chairs receive a retainer for such service, in
the amount of $15,000. Nonemployee directors are reimbursed for their expenses
in connection with attending Board meetings (including expenses related to
spouses when they are invited to attend Board events), and nonemployee
directors may use the company aircraft for travel to and from 3M Board
meetings.
16 


The
following table provides information on 2005 compensation for nonemployee directors who served during
2005.




 Name:


 


 


 


Total


 


 


 


Cash
  Retainer(2)


 


 


 


Equity
  Retainer


 


 


 


Committee
  Chair Fees(2)


 




 Linda G. Alvarado


 


 


 


$


160,000


 


 


 


 


$


65,000


 


 


 


 


$


95,000


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Edward A. Brennan


 


 


 


171,000


 


 


 


 


65,000


 


 


 


 


95,000


 


 


 


 


$


11,000


 


 




 Vance D. Coffman


 


 


 


160,000


 


 


 


 


65,000


 


 


 


 


95,000


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Michael L. Eskew


 


 


 


160,000


 


 


 


 


65,000


 


 


 


 


95,000


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Edward M. Liddy


 


 


 


171,000


 


 


 


 


65,000


 


 


 


 


95,000


 


 


 


 


11,000


 


 




 Robert S. Morrison(1)


 


 


 


122,500


 


 


 


 


27,500


 


 


 


 


95,000


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Aulana L. Peters


 


 


 


171,000


 


 


 


 


65,000


 


 


 


 


95,000


 


 


 


 


11,000


 


 




 Rozanne L. Ridgway


 


 


 


171,000


 


 


 


 


65,000


 


 


 


 


95,000


 


 


 


 


11,000


 


 




 Kevin W. Sharer


 


 


 


160,000


 


 


 


 


65,000


 


 


 


 


95,000


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Louis W. Sullivan


 


 


 


160,000


 


 


 


 


65,000


 


 


 


 


95,000


 


 


 


 


 


 


 
































(1)            Robert S. Morrison
served as the Company’s interim Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer from June 30, 2005 to December 6, 2005. During that period he
did not earn any additional compensation as a nonemployee director.
(2)            The Board increased
the cash retainer from $55,000 to $75,000 and increased the committee chair
fees from $7,500 to $15,000, effective July 1, 2005.
Stock Ownership Guidelines — The Board has adopted
stock ownership guidelines that provide that each director should attain over his or her three-year term an investment
position in 3M’s stock (including deferred stock) equal to two times the annual
retainer. All directors currently meet these stock ownership guidelines.
Matching Gift Program — The nonemployee directors are
eligible to participate in the matching gift program on the same terms as 3M
employees. Under this program, the 3M Foundation will match up to a total of
$5,000 a year in contributions by the director to eligible institutions of
higher education or public broadcasting organizations.
17




PROPOSALS TO BE VOTED ON
PROPOSAL NO. 1
ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
The Board is currently divided into three classes
serving staggered three-year terms. Directors for each class are elected at the
Annual Meeting of Stockholders held in the year in which the term for their
class expires. On February 23, 2006, the Board of Directors approved an
amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation to declassify the Board and
authorize the annual election of the Board of Directors. The amendment is
described in further detail in “Proposal No. 3” and will be submitted for
approval of the stockholders at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. If the
amendment is approved by not less than 80 percent (80%) of the outstanding
common stock entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting, the terms of office of all
directors who are in office immediately prior to the closing of the polls for
the election of directors at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders shall
expire at such time and all directors will be elected annually beginning with
the 2007 Annual Meeting.
The terms of four directors will expire at the 2006
Annual Meeting. Except as provided above, Directors elected at the 2006 Annual
Meeting will hold office for a three-year term expiring at the Annual Meeting
in 2009 (or until their respective successors are elected and qualified, or
until their earlier death, resignation, or removal). Mr. Brennan and Dr. Sullivan
will retire from the Board of Directors at the May 2006 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders in accordance with the Board’s retirement policy which provides
that each nonemployee
director must tender his or her resignation at the annual
meeting following his or her 72nd birthday. There are no
family relationships among the Company’s executive officers and directors.
A plurality of votes cast is required for the election
of directors. However, under the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, any nominee for director in an uncontested
election (i.e., an election where the only nominees are those recommended by
the Board) who receives a greater number of votes “withheld” from his or her
election than votes “for” such election (a “Majority Withheld Vote”) will
promptly tender his or her resignation for consideration by the Nominating and
Governance Committee.
The Nominating and Governance Committee will promptly
consider the best interests of 3M and its stockholders and recommend to a
committee of independent directors of the Board whether to accept the tendered
resignation or to take some other action, such as rejecting the resignation and
addressing the apparent underlying causes of the withheld votes.
The Board will create a committee of all the
independent directors who did not receive a Majority Withheld Vote to consider
the Nominating and Governance Committee’s recommendation and take action within
90 days following the uncontested election. Thereafter, the committee of
independent directors will promptly disclose its decision and an explanation of
how the decision was reached in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If one or more members of the Nominating and
Governance Committee receive a Majority Withheld Vote, then the Board will
create a committee of independent directors who did not receive a Majority
Withheld Vote to consider the resignation offers of all directors receiving a
Majority Withheld Vote and determine whether to accept the tendered resignation(s) or
to take some other action and promptly disclose their decision as described
above.
Except as provided in the next sentence, a director
receiving a Majority Withheld Vote shall remain active and engaged in Board
activities during this Nominating and Governance Committee and Board process. Any
director who receives a Majority Withheld Vote and tenders his or her
resignation pursuant to this provision will not participate in the committee
action regarding whether to accept the tendered resignation offer or take some
other action. However, if the only directors who did not receive a Majority
Withheld Vote in the same election constitute three or fewer independent 
18 


directors, then all
independent directors may participate in the committee action regarding whether
to accept the resignation offer(s) or to take some other action.
The persons named as proxies
intend to vote the proxies for the election of the nominees to the Board of
Directors. If any of the nominees should be unavailable to serve as a director,
an event which is not anticipated, the persons named as proxies reserve full
discretion to vote for any other persons who may be nominated.
Nominees
for Terms to Expire at the 2009 Annual Meeting:







 


Linda G. Alvarado, 54, President and Chief
  Executive Officer, Alvarado Construction, Inc. In 1976, Ms. Alvarado
  founded Alvarado Construction, Inc. and has overseen the growth of that
  enterprise as a commercial general contracting firm. Ms. Alvarado is on
  the boards of the following public companies in addition to 3M: Lennox
  International Inc., Pitney Bowes, Inc., The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc.,
  and QWEST Communications International, Inc.
Director
  since 2000.




 


 


 







 


Edward M. Liddy, 60, Chairman and Chief
  Executive Officer of The Allstate Corporation, the parent of Allstate
  Insurance Company, a personal lines insurance company, since 1999.
  He served as President and Chief Operating Officer of The Allstate
  Corporation from 1994 to 1998. Before joining Allstate, Mr. Liddy was
  Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Sears, Roebuck and Co.,
  where he held a variety of senior operating and financial positions since
  1988. Mr. Liddy is on the board of the following public company in
  addition to 3M and The Allstate Corporation: Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Director
  since 2000.




 


 


 







 


Robert S. Morrison, 63, Retired Vice Chairman of
  PepsiCo, Inc., a processor of packaged foods and beverages. Mr. Morrison
  served as Vice Chairman of PepsiCo, Inc. from 2001 to February 2003.
  From 1997 until the 2001 merger with PepsiCo, Mr. Morrison was Chairman,
  President and Chief Executive Officer of The Quaker Oats Company. From June 30
  to December 6, 2005, Mr. Morrison served as interim Chairman of the
  Board and Chief Executive Officer of 3M Company. Mr. Morrison is on the
  boards of the following public companies in addition to 3M: AON Corporation,
  Illinois Tool Works, Inc., and the Tribune Company.
Director
  since 2002.




 


 


 







 


Aulana L. Peters, 64, Retired Partner, Gibson,
  Dunn & Crutcher LLP. Mrs. Peters is a retired
  partner of the law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher where she was a
  partner from 1980 to 1984 and 1988 to 2000. From 1984 to 1988, she served as
  a Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission. From January 2001
  to April 2002, Mrs. Peters served as a member of the Public
  Oversight Board (“POB”) of the American Institute of Certified Public
  Accountants. Mrs. Peters has also served as a member of the Steering
  Committee for Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Financial Reporting
  Project and a member of the POB’s Blue Ribbon Panel on Audit Effectiveness.
  Currently, Mrs. Peters serves on the U.S. Comptroller General’s
  Accountability Advisory Panel and is a member of the International Public
  Interest Oversight Board which oversees the standard setting process of the
  International Federation of Accountants for auditing, assurance, independence
  and ethics standards. Mrs. Peters is on the boards of the following
  public companies in addition to 3M: Deere & Company, Merrill Lynch &
  Co., Inc., and Northrop Grumman Corporation.
Director
  since 1990.




 
19 


 
The Board of Directors
recommends a vote “FOR” the election to the Board of each of the foregoing
nominees. Proxies solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted “FOR” each
of the nominees unless a contrary vote is specified.
The Company’s directors listed
below whose terms are not expiring this year will continue in office for the
remainder of their terms or earlier in accordance with the Company’s Bylaws.
Information regarding the business experience of the incumbent directors is
provided below.
Directors
Whose Terms Expire at the 2007 Annual Meeting:







 


Edward A. Brennan, 72, Retired Chairman of the
  Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer, Sears, Roebuck and Co., a
  merchandising company. Mr. Brennan retired from Sears in
  1995. Mr. Brennan is on the boards of the following public companies in
  addition to 3M: AMR Corporation, The Allstate Corporation, Exelon
  Corporation, and McDonald’s Corporation. Mr. Brennan will retire from
  the Board of Directors at the May 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders in
  accordance with the Board’s retirement policy described in the Corporate
  Governance Guidelines in Appendix A.
Director
  since 1986.




 


 


 







 


Michael L. Eskew, 56, Chairman of the Board
  and Chief Executive Officer, United Parcel Service, Inc., since 2002.
  Mr. Eskew was appointed Executive Vice President in 1999 and Vice
  Chairman in 2000 before becoming Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in January 2002.
  Mr. Eskew is on the board of the following public company in addition to
  3M and United Parcel Service: 
  International Business Machines Corp.
Director
  since 2003.




 


 


 







 


George W. Buckley, 59, Chairman of the Board,
  President and Chief Executive Officer since December 2005. Before
  joining 3M in 2005, Mr. Buckley was Chairman of the Board, President and
  Chief Executive Officer of the Brunswick Corporation since 2000, and served
  in other executive positions at Brunswick Corporation from 1997 to 2000.
  Mr. Buckley is on the board of the following public company in addition
  to 3M: Ingersoll-Rand Company.
Director
  since 2005




 


 


 







 


Kevin W. Sharer, 58, Chairman of the Board
  and Chief Executive Officer, Amgen Inc., a biotechnology company, since 2000.
  Mr. Sharer joined Amgen in 1992 as its President and Chief Operating
  Officer and served in that capacity until elected Amgen’s Chairman and Chief
  Executive Officer in 2000. Mr. Sharer is on the board of the following
  public company in addition to 3M and Amgen: Northrop Grumman Corporation.
Director
  since 2001.




 
20 


Directors
Whose Terms Expire at the 2008 Annual Meeting:







 


Vance D. Coffman, 61, Retired Chairman of the
  Board and Chief Executive Officer, Lockheed Martin Corporation, a high
  technology aerospace and defense company. Dr. Coffman served
  in various executive capacities at Lockheed Martin Corporation before
  becoming Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 1998. He retired as Chief
  Executive Officer in 2004 and as Chairman of the Board in 2005. Dr. Coffman
  is on the boards of the following public companies in addition to 3M:
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Deere & Company.
Director since 2002.




 


 


 







 


Rozanne L. Ridgway, 70, Former Assistant
  Secretary of State for Europe and Canada. Ambassador Ridgway
  served in the U.S. Foreign Service from 1957 to 1989, including assignments
  as Ambassador for Oceans and Fisheries Affairs, Ambassador to Finland and to
  the German Democratic Republic, and from 1985 and until her retirement in
  1989, Assistant Secretary of State for European and Canadian Affairs.
  Ambassador Ridgway served as President until 1993 and Co-Chair until mid-1996
  of the Atlantic Council of the United States, an association to promote
  better understanding of major foreign policy issues. Ambassador Ridgway is on
  the boards of the following public companies in addition to 3M: The Boeing
  Company, Emerson Electric Co., Manpower Inc., and Sara Lee Corporation. She
  is also a director in three funds in the American Funds complex.
Director since 1989.




 


 


 







 


Louis W. Sullivan, 72, President Emeritus,
  Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia. Since completion
  of his medical training, Dr. Sullivan has held both professional and
  administrative positions in health care facilities and medical training
  institutions. He joined Morehouse College as Professor of Biology and
  Medicine in 1975 and was the founding dean and director of the Medical
  Education Program at the college. He was named President of Morehouse School
  of Medicine in 1981. He served as Secretary, United States Department of
  Health and Human Services, from 1989 to 1993. He returned to Morehouse School
  of Medicine in 1993. Dr. Sullivan retired as President in 2002. Dr. Sullivan
  is on the boards of the following public companies in addition to 3M:
  Bio-Sante Pharmaceuticals, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, CIGNA Corporation,
  Henry Schein, Inc., Inhibitex, Inc., and United Therapeutics
  Corporation. Dr. Sullivan will retire from the Board of Directors at the
  May 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders in accordance with the Board’s
  retirement policy described in the Corporate Governance Guidelines in
  Appendix A.
Director
  since 1993.




 
21




PROPOSAL NO. 2
RATIFICATION OF THE
APPOINTMENT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
The Audit Committee has appointed
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm
to audit the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the year ending December 31,
2006. If the stockholders do not
ratify the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Audit Committee will
reconsider the selection.
During 2005, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP served as the
Company’s independent registered public accounting firm and also provided
certain tax and other audit-related services. For a description of those
services and the fees paid, see section entitled “Fees of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm.”
Representatives of PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP are expected to attend the Annual Meeting where they will be available to
respond to questions and, if they desire, to make a statement.
Recommendation of the Board
The Board of Directors recommends a vote “FOR” the
ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company’s
independent registered public accounting firm. Proxies solicited by the Board
of Directors will be voted “FOR” ratification unless a contrary vote is
specified.
PROPOSAL NO. 3
PROPOSAL TO AMEND THE
COMPANY’S CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION TO
AUTHORIZE THE ANNUAL ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
Stockholders are being asked to approve an amendment
to Article TENTH (the “Amendment”) of the Company’s Certificate of
Incorporation to eliminate the present three-year staggered terms of our
directors and to provide instead for the annual election of all directors. In
addition, the Amendment provides that directors elected for one-year terms may
be removed by the stockholders with or without cause, amending the provision of
the existing Certificate of Incorporation that permits removal only for cause.
Under the present
classified board structure, our directors are divided into three classes, with
each class serving three-year terms, and are removable only for cause. If the
Amendment is approved, directors will be elected to one-year terms of office
beginning at the 2007 Annual Meeting, and the directors so elected will be
removable with or without cause.
In determining whether the Amendment is in the best
interests of the Company’s stockholders, the Nominating and Governance
Committee and the Board considered arguments for and against the classified
board structure which was adopted by the Board and approved by the stockholders
in 1986. The Board considered that overlapping three-year terms of directors
promote continuity and stability in governance, that experienced directors may
have a longer-term perspective, that three-year director terms can strengthen
director independence and facilitate retention of qualified directors. The
classified board structure can also increase the Board’s negotiating leverage
with respect to unsolicited takeover proposals.
The Board also considered the views of investors who
believe that the classified board structure reduces the accountability of
directors to stockholders because the directors on such a board do not face an
annual election. Since director elections are the primary means by which the
stockholders can affect corporate management, the classified board structure
may diminish stockholder influence over Company policy. Furthermore, the
classified board structure may negatively affect stockholder value 
22 


by discouraging proxy contests
in which stockholders have an opportunity to vote for an entire slate of
competing nominees.
After weighing all of
these considerations, the Nominating and Governance Committee recommended the
elimination of the classified board, and the Board agreed and determined that
the Amendment is advisable and in the best interests of the Company and its
stockholders. Accordingly, the Board has approved the Amendment (which is
described below and set forth in its entirety in the Certificate of Amendment
in Appendix F), and recommends that the stockholders approve the Amendment by
voting in favor of this Proposal.
1.               Beginning At The 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, All Directors
Will Serve One-Year Terms — If the Amendment is approved by the
stockholders, the terms of office of all directors who are in office
immediately prior to the closing of the polls for the election of directors at
the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Corporation shall expire at such
time. At each Annual Meeting of Stockholders beginning with the 2007 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders of the Corporation, the directors shall not be
classified, and the directors shall be elected annually and shall hold office
for a term expiring at the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders and until their
respective successors shall have been duly elected and qualified.
2.               The Certificate of Incorporation Will Be Amended With the Effect That
All Directors Elected To Fill Vacancies After the 2007 Annual Meeting Will
Serve One-Year Terms — Article TENTH of the Company’s
Certificate of Incorporation currently provides that directors elected to fill
vacancies on the Board serve the remainder of the full three-year terms to
which their predecessors were elected. Consistent with the proposed elimination
of the classified board structure, Article TENTH would be amended to
eliminate the applicability of such provisions as of the 2007 Annual Meeting
which will result in directors elected to fill vacancies on the Board after the
2007 Annual Meeting serving for a term ending at the next Annual Meeting
following their election.
3.               The Provision Requiring That Directors Be Removed By The Stockholders
Only For Cause Will Be Amended To Provide That Directors Elected in the Future
for One-Year Terms Are Removable With Or Without Cause — Article TENTH
of the Certificate of Incorporation currently provides that our directors may
be removed by the Company’s stockholders only for cause. Under Delaware law,
directors of companies that do not have classified boards may be removed by
stockholders with or without cause. Because the Amendment to our Certificate of
Incorporation must, therefore, provide for director removal without cause after
the 2007 Annual Meeting (when the classification of the Board would terminate),
Article TENTH would also be amended to change the current limitation on
director removal by providing that directors elected to one-year terms of
office may be removed with or without cause.
4.               The Provision Requiring At Least 80% of The Outstanding Shares To Amend
or Repeal Article TENTH Will Be Eliminated — Article TENTH
of the Certificate of Incorporation currently provides that Article TENTH
may not be amended or repealed unless such action is approved by the
affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80
percent (80%) of the voting power of all of the outstanding shares of stock
entitled to vote. The Amendment eliminates this provision and, if the Amendment
is approved, Delaware law provides that future changes to Article TENTH
will require the approval of the majority of the outstanding shares of stock entitled
to vote.
Vote Required: The affirmative “FOR” vote by the holders of at least
80 percent (80%) of the
outstanding common stock entitled to vote is required to approve this amendment
to the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation.
23 


Effective Date: If approved by the stockholders, the Amendment would
become effective upon the filing with the Secretary of State of Delaware of a
Certificate of Amendment, which is set forth in Appendix F attached hereto,
which filing is expected to take place shortly after the stockholders approve
the amendment.
Recommendation of the Board
The Board of Directors recommends that stockholders
vote “FOR” this proposal. Proxies solicited by the Board of Directors will be
voted FOR this proposal unless a contrary vote is specified.




































PROPOSAL NO. 4
STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL
3M has received a stockholder proposal from the United
Brotherhood of Carpenters Pension Fund (the “Proponent”). The Proponent has
requested the Company to include the following proposal and supporting statement
in its proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The proposal may
be voted on at the Annual Meeting only if properly presented by the Proponent
or the Proponent’s qualified representative.
Proponent’s Proposal:
Resolved: That the shareholders
of 3M Company (“Company”) request that the Board of Director’s Executive
Compensation Committee establish a pay-for-­superior-performance standard in
the Company’s executive compensation plan for senior executives (“Plan”), by
incorporating the following principles into the Plan:
1.               The
annual incentive component of the Company’s Plan should utilize financial
performance criteria that can be benchmarked against peer group performance,
and provide that no annual bonus be awarded based on financial performance
criteria unless the Company exceeds the median or mean performance of a
disclosed group of peer companies on the selected financial criteria;
2.               The
long-term equity compensation component of the Company’s Plan should utilize
financial and/or stock price performance criteria that can be benchmarked
against peer group performance, and any options, restricted shares, or other
equity compensation used should be structured so that compensation is received
only when Company performance exceeds the median or mean performance of the
peer group companies on the selected financial and stock price performance
criteria; and
3.               Plan
disclosure should allow shareholders to monitor the correlation between pay and
performance established in the Plan.
Supporting Statement:
We feel it is imperative that executive compensation plans for senior
executives be designed and implemented to promote long-term corporate value. A
critical design feature of a well-conceived executive compensation plan is a
close correlation between the level of pay and the level of corporate
performance. We believe the failure to tie executive compensation to superior
corporate performance has fueled the escalation of executive compensation and
detracted from the goal of enhancing long-term corporate value. The median
increase in CEO total compensation between 2003 and 2004 was 30.15% for S&P
500 companies, twice the previous year increase of 15.04% according to The
Corporate Library’s CEO Pay Survey.
24




The pay-for-performance
concept has received considerable attention, yet most executive compensation
plans are designed to award significant amounts of compensation for average or
below average peer group performance. Two common and related executive compensation
practices have combined to produce pay-for-average-performance and escalating
executive compensation.
First, senior executive
total compensation levels are targeted at peer group median levels. Second, the
performance criteria and benchmarks in the incentive compensation portions of
the plans, which typically deliver the vast majority of total compensation, are
calibrated to deliver a significant portion of the targeted amount. The formula
combines generous total compensation targets with less than demanding
performance criteria and benchmarks.
We believe the Company’s Plan fails to promote the
pay-for-superior-performance principle. Our Proposal offers a straightforward
solution: The Compensation Committee should establish and disclose meaningful
performance criteria on which to base annual and long-term incentive senior
executive compensation and then set and disclose performance benchmarks to
provide for awards or payouts only when the Company exceeds peer group
performance. We believe a plan to reward only superior corporate performance
will help moderate executive compensation and focus senior executives on
building sustainable long-term corporate value.
Board’s Statement
Opposing the Proposal
After careful consideration, and for the reasons set forth
below, the Board believes that the proposal to require the Compensation
Committee (the “Committee”) to establish a pay-for-superior-performance
standard by using the performance of peer companies rather than 3M’s
performance to determine the amount of payments under 3M’s performance based
compensation plans for senior executives is not in the best interests of 3M or
its stockholders for the following reasons:
1.               The proposal is so
vague and subject to different interpretations that neither the stockholders
voting on the Proposal, nor the Committee in implementing the Proposal (if
adopted), would be able to determine with any reasonable certainty exactly what
actions or measures the Proposal requires. For example, the proposal does not
clearly indicate whether the Committee should abolish any or all of the current
compensation plans for senior executives or how the proposal would apply to
each of the three separate compensation plans referred to below.
2.               Total compensation
must be competitive to attract the best talent to 3M; motivate employees to
perform at their highest levels; reward outstanding achievement; and retain
those individuals with the leadership abilities and skills necessary for
building long-term stockholder value. Senior executives are effectively
motivated when their performance-based compensation is directly tied to 3M’s
performance and not to the performance of “peer companies” over which 3M’s
senior executives have no control. Compensation plans that would pay nothing
for outstanding performance that merely matched the performance of 3M’s peer
companies would not accomplish these purposes.
3.               We
believe strongly in, and have a long history of, linking executive compensation
to Company performance. A significant portion (targeted at 65 percent to 89
percent) of an executive’s total compensation is variable and at risk and tied
to both the quarterly and long-term financial performance of the Company. The
Company’s performance-based compensation consists of the following components:
quarterly profit sharing, three-year performance unit plan and stock options.
·        Quarterly Profit Sharing —
Profit sharing is variable compensation based on the quarterly economic profit
of the Company and its business units. Economic profit is defined as quarterly
net operating income minus a charge for operating capital used by the business.

25 


The economic profit measurement is directly related to
the creation of stockholder value since it emphasizes the effective use of
capital and solid profitable growth. Compensation paid under the profit sharing
plan fluctuates based on Company performance.
·        Three-year Performance
Unit Plan — The Performance Unit Plan is variable compensation based on
the Company’s long-term performance. The amount payable for each performance unit
granted in 2005 is linked to the performance criteria of Economic Profit Growth
and Sales Growth. “Sales Growth” is the percentage amount by which the
Company’s worldwide organic sales growth (sales growth adjusted for
acquisitions, inflation and currency effects) exceeds worldwide real sales
growth as reflected in the Industrial Production Index (“IPI”) as published by
the U.S. Federal Reserve Board. Since the IPI reflects the growth of companies
in many of the same markets as 3M, the index provides a good way to compare
3M’s performance to the performance of the competitive marketplace. The amount
payable may be anywhere from $0 to $360 per unit, depending on the performance
of the Company during the three-year performance period ending on December 31,
2007.
·        Stock Options — The
objectives of the Management Stock Ownership Program are to help the Company
attract and retain outstanding employees, and to promote the growth and success
of the Company’s business by aligning the financial interests of these
employees with the other stockholders of the Company. Currently, the Committee
makes annual grants of stock options under the Program to the executive
officers. These options have an exercise price equal to the market price of the
Company’s common stock on the grant date, and generally expire ten years after
the grant date. Stock options encourage executives to become owners of the
Company, which further aligns their interests with those of the stockholders.
These options only have value to the recipients if the price of the Company’s
stock appreciates after the options are granted.
The Board believes that 3M’s
current performance-based compensation programs work well and have been a
strong contributing factor to the Company’s success over the years, providing
real value to its stockholders. The Board believes that it is in the best
interests of stockholders to give the Committee the flexibility and discretion
to use performance-based compensation and equity incentive tools as appropriate
based on the circumstances and information available at the time. For this
reason and the reasons stated above, the Board believes that the adoption of
the stockholder proposal is unnecessary and detrimental to the long-term
interests of the Company’s stockholders.
Recommendation of the Board
The Board of Directors recommends a vote “AGAINST”
this proposal for the reasons discussed above. Proxies solicited by the Board
of Directors will be voted “AGAINST” this proposal unless a stockholder
indicates otherwise in voting the proxy.
26 


PROPOSAL NO. 5
STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL
3M has received a stockholder proposal from Dorothy Goldberg and David
Goldberg (the “Proponents”). The Proponents have requested the Company to
include the following proposal and supporting statement in its proxy statement
for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The proposal may be voted on at the
Annual Meeting only if properly presented by the Proponent or the Proponent’s
qualified representative.
Proponent’s Proposal:
WHEREAS, the Company
conducts tests on animals as part of its product research and development; and
WHEREAS, the Company also retains independent laboratories to conduct tests on
animals as part of product research and development; and
WHEREAS, abuses of
animals at independent laboratories have been recently revealed and disclosed
by the media; and WHEREAS, the Company has no published animal welfare or
animal care policy prominently posted on its website; NOW THEREFORE,
BE IT RESOLVED, that
the shareholders request that the Board adopt and post an Animal Welfare Policy
online which addresses the Company’s commitment to (a) reducing, refining
and replacing its use of animals in research and testing, and (b) ensuring
superior standards of care for animals who continue to be used for these purposes,
both by the Company itself and by all independently retained laboratories,
including provisions to ensure that animals’ psychological, social and
behavioral needs are met. Further, the shareholders request that the Board
issue an annual report to shareholders on the extent to which in-house and
contract laboratories are adhering to this policy, including the implementation
of the psychological  enrichment
measures.
Supporting Statement:
The Boards of many
companies have adopted and prominently published animal welfare policies on
their websites relating to the care of animals used in product research and
development. Our Company should be an industry leader with respect to animal
welfare issues, and yet it has no publicly available animal welfare policy.
The recent disclosure
of atrocities recorded at Covance, Inc. has made the need for a
formalized, publicly available animal welfare policy that extends to all
outside contractors all the more relevant, indeed urgent. Filmed footage showed
primates being subjected to such gross physical abuses and psychological
torments that Covance sued to stop PETA Europe from publicizing it. The
Honorable Judge Peter Langan, in the United Kingdom, who denied Covance’s
petition, stated in his decision that the video was “highly disturbing” and
that just two aspects of it, namely the “rough manner in which animals are
handled and the bleakness of the surroundings in which they are kept. . . .
even to a viewer with no particular interest in animal welfare, at least cry
out for explanation.”1
Shareholders cannot
monitor what goes on behind the closed doors of the animal testing
laboratories, so the Company must. Accordingly, we urge the Board to commit to
ensuring that basic animal welfare measures are an integral part of our Company’s
corporate stewardship.
We urge shareholders to support this Resolution.

 

1           The case captioned Covance
Laboratories Limited v. PETA
Europe Limited was filed in the High Court of Justice, Chancery
Division, Leeds District Registry, Claim No. 5C-00295. In addition
to ruling in PETA’s favor, the Court ordered Covance to pay PETA £50,000 in
costs and fees.
27 



Board’s
Statement Opposing the Proposal
3M has implemented the
Proposal by posting its well established Animal Welfare in Testing and Research
Global Policy (“Animal Welfare Policy”) on its Web  site. The Animal Welfare Policy
applies to both 3M and its contract research organizations worldwide and states in part:
3M is obligated to ensure that its products are
effective and safe. At present, this requires the judicious use of laboratory
animals in research and development of some products. 3M looks forward to the
day when science has developed to the point where the use of animals no longer
is required to establish the efficacy and safety of its products. Until then,
3M is committed to the use of alternatives to animals when feasible and
subscribes to the recognized principles of replacement, reduction and
refinement (“The Principles of Humane Experimental Techniques,”
W.M.S. Russell & R.L. Burch, 1959). When animal studies are deemed
necessary, there must be effective programs to ensure: animals are treated
humanely, ethically, and in accord with accepted veterinary practices to
promote their comfort and physical and psychological well-being; their use is
scientifically justified; and their care and treatment are carefully
scrutinized by an effective institutional animal care and use review process.
One recognized means for demonstrating commitment to and achievement of a high
quality animal care and use program is through accreditation by the Association
for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care, International
(AAALAC).
AAALAC is a private, nonprofit organization that
promotes the humane treatment of animals in science through voluntary
accreditation and assessment programs and conduct program evaluations that
determine which institutions are awarded AAALAC accreditation. Their
responsibilities include conducting site visits, reviewing site visit reports,
evaluating information and reviewing yearly reports from accredited
institutions.
The Company is also willing to issue an annual report
regarding compliance with the Animal Welfare Policy and post that report on its
Web  site as part of the Company’s
Sustainability Report. By taking these actions and
posting the Company’s Animal Welfare Policy on its Web site which describes the
Company’s commitment to the appropriate care and treatment of laboratory
animals, we believe the Proposal is unnecessary since we have already addressed
the objectives sought by the Proponent.



Recommendation of the Board
The Board of Directors
recommends a vote “AGAINST” this proposal for the reasons discussed above.
Proxies solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted “AGAINST” this
proposal unless a stockholder indicates otherwise in voting the proxy.
28 


PROPOSAL NO. 6
STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL
3M  has received identical stockholder proposals
from the Funding Exchange, the Benedictine Sisters of Mount St. Scholastica, and the Congregation of Holy Cross
Southern Province, all of which are represented by Harrington
Investments, Inc., 1001 2nd Street, Suite 325, Napa, CA 94559 (the “Proponent”).
The Proponent has requested the Company to include the following proposal and
supporting statement in its proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders. The proposal may be voted on at the Annual Meeting only if
properly presented by the Proponent or the Proponent’s qualified
representative.
Proponent’s Proposal:
WHEREAS: our company’s
business practices in China respect human and labor rights of workers. The
first nine principles below were designed to commit a company to a widely
accepted and thorough set of human and labor rights standards for China. They
were defined by the International Labor Organization and the United Nations
Covenants on Economic, Social & Cultural Rights, and Civil &
Political Rights.
(1)           No goods
or products produced within our company’s facilities or those of suppliers
shall be manufactured by bonded labor, forced labor, within prison camps or as
part of reform-through-labor or reeducation-through-labor programs.
(2)           Our
facilities and suppliers shall adhere to wages that meet workers’ basic needs,
fair and decent working hours, and at a minimum, to the wage and hour
guidelines provided by China’s national labor laws.
(3)           Our
facilities and suppliers shall prohibit the use of corporal punishment, any
physical, sexual or verbal abuse or harassment of workers.
(4)           Our
facilities and suppliers shall use production methods that do not negatively
affect the worker’s occupational safety and health.
(5)           Our
facilities and suppliers shall not call on police or military to enter their
premises to prevent workers from exercising their rights.
(6)           We shall
undertake to promote the following freedoms among our employees and the
employees of our suppliers: freedom of association and assembly, including the
rights to form unions and bargain collectively; freedom of expression, and
freedom from arbitrary arrest or detention.
(7)           Company
employees and those of our suppliers shall not face discrimination in hiring,
remuneration or promotion based on age, gender, marital status, pregnancy,
ethnicity, region of origin, labor, political or religious activity, or on involvement
in demonstrations, past records of arrests or internal exile for peaceful
protest, or membership in organizations committed to non-violent social or
political change.
(8)           Our
facilities and suppliers shall use environmentally responsible methods of
production that have minimum adverse impact on land, air and water quality.
(9)           Our
facilities and suppliers shall prohibit child labor, at a minimum comply with
guidelines on minimum age for employment within China’s national labor laws.
(10)    We will not sell
or provide products or technology in China that can be used to commit human
rights violations or labor rights abuse.
29 


(11)    We will issue
annual statements to the China Working Group detailing our efforts to uphold
these principles and to promote these basic freedoms.
RESOLVED: Stockholders request the Board of
Directors to make all possible lawful efforts to implement and/or increase
activity on each of the principles named above in the People’s Republic of
China.
SUPPORTING
STATEMENT: As U.S. companies import more goods, consumer and shareholder
concern is growing about working conditions in China that fall below basic
standards of fair and humane treatment. We hope that our company can prove to
be a leader in its industry and embrace these principles.
Board’s
Statement Opposing the Proposal
3M has long been recognized
worldwide as an ethical and law-abiding company. Although the Company has
business operations in more than 60 countries, 3M has only one set of business
conduct policies and human resource principles that apply globally. These
universal standards provide a framework for conducting business the right way —
legally and ethically — everywhere 3M does business, including the People’s
Republic of China. 3M opposes the proposal because adopting duplicative
principles for one country is unnecessary and contrary to the benefits derived
from one set of standards applicable to every country where we do business. 3M’s
universal standards relate to and substantially implement each of the
principles described in the proposal and include:
·       Fair Employment and Labor Practices: Our compensation for
our workforce in China significantly exceeds minimum wage requirements. 3M
values a diverse workforce and has extensive programs to identify, hire,
educate, and promote employees with a wide range of skills and attributes. 3M
prohibits workplace harassment and respects workers’ freedom to associate with
each other and organize. 3M has adopted strong worker protection principles
that apply worldwide that prohibit the use of forced or bonded labor, or the
employment of children under the minimum age established by local law.
·       Harassment-free Workplace: It is 3M policy that employees
and others acting on 3M’s behalf are entitled to a working environment that is
free of inappropriate behavior of all kinds and harassment because of age,
disability, marital status, race or color, national origin, religion, sex or
sexual orientation.
·       Environmental, Health and Safety: It is 3M policy to provide
a safe and healthful workplace for its employees, and to minimize the impact of
our production processes and products on the environment.
·       Supplier Expectations: 
We also set specific expectations for our suppliers. These expectations
state that a 3M supplier must, among others: (i) ensure that goods
produced for 3M have been manufactured and sold in compliance with all
applicable laws, rules, and regulations; (ii) comply with all local
country labor laws, including those related to wages, hours worked, working
conditions, and child
labor; (iii) not use labor which is a result of mental or physical
coercion, physical punishment, slavery or other oppressive labor conditions; (iv) comply
with applicable country employment discrimination laws; (v) hire and
employ workers in compliance with applicable laws, wages, benefits, and working
hours are expected to be fair and reasonable in the local labor market; and (vi) provide
workers with a safe and healthy work environment that is in compliance with
applicable laws.
Each year, 3M publishes on its
Web site a sustainability report that looks beyond financial reporting and
marketplace performance to present a broader perspective of our Company and
our values. This report provides our employees and a broad external audience
with 
30 


an overview
of the management systems we apply to the economic, social, workforce, and
environmental aspects of our business. This report is available not only to the
China Working Group referred to in the stockholder proposal, but to everyone. A
copy of the report is available at: http://solutions.3m.com/wps/portal/!ut/p/kcxml/04_Sj9SPykssy0xPLMnMz0vM0Q9KzYsPDdaP0I8yizeINzTy0S_IcFQEAILZSrE!.
In recognition of our
commitment to sustainability, 3M has been selected for inclusion in the 2006
Dow Jones Sustainability Index that tracks the performance of
sustainability-driven companies worldwide. This marks the fifth year that we
have been included in the index and named the leader in our category of diversified
companies.
Our business touches a broad
and diverse group of individuals and organizations — our employees,
stockholders, customers, suppliers, and communities in which we operate. The
Company’s universal standards effectively support its responsibilities to each
of its stakeholders. We believe the Company’s global business conduct policies,
human resource principles and management systems already address the objectives
sought by the Proponent.
Last year, Harrington
Investments, on behalf of a nominal stockholder, asked the Company to include
the same proposal in the Company’s proxy materials for its 2005 annual meeting.
3M responded directly to Harrington Investments that it already substantially
implemented the Proposal. At Harrington’s request for specific detailed
information on 3M’s practices in China, 3M arranged conference calls for
representatives from Harrington Investments and the non-profit China Working Group that periodically works with Harrington
Investments, and several 3M representatives, including 3M
China’s managing director and manufacturing director. In the last conference
call, the executive director of the China Working Group explicitly
sought a financial contribution from the Company to support
that group’s efforts in China in exchange for withdrawing the proposal. The
Company declined to make a contribution under those circumstances and the
proposal was defeated at last year’s annual meeting.
Recommendation of the
Board
The Board of Directors recommends a vote “AGAINST”
this proposal for the reasons discussed above. Proxies solicited by the Board
of Directors will be voted “AGAINST” this proposal unless a stockholder indicates
otherwise in voting the proxy.
COMMON
STOCK OWNERSHIP OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
The following table sets forth
information concerning beneficial ownership of the Company’s common stock as of
February 28, 2006, for: (a) each director and the nominees for
director; (b) Named Executive Officers set forth in the Summary
Compensation Table; and (c) the directors and executive officers as a
group. Unless otherwise indicated, each person has sole investment and voting
power (or shares such powers with his or her spouse) with respect to the shares
set forth in the following table.
The number of shares
beneficially owned by each director or executive officer is determined under
the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the information is
not necessarily indicative of beneficial ownership for any other purpose. Under
such rules, beneficial ownership includes any shares as to which the individual
has the sole or shared voting power or investment power and also any shares
that the individual has the right to acquire as of April 29, 2006 (60 days
after February 28, 2006), through the exercise of any stock option or
other right. Options exercisable within 60 days after February 28, 2006,
are shown separately.
31 


Beneficial Ownership
Table




Name and Principal Position


 


 


 


Common Stock
  Beneficially
  Owned (1)


 


Options
  Exercisable (2)


 


Shares Held as
  Deferred Stock (3)


 


Total


 




Linda G. Alvarado,
  Director


 


 


4,911


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


5,195


 


 


10,106


 




Edward A. Brennan, Director


 


 


252


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


38,665


 


 


38,917


 




Vance D. Coffman, Director


 


 


237


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


8,273


 


 


8,510


 




Michael L. Eskew, Director


 


 


0


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


6,369


 


 


6,369


 




Edward M. Liddy, Director


 


 


0


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


13,055


 


 


13,055


 




Robert S. Morrison, Director


 


 


4,491


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


4,925


 


 


9,416


 




Aulana L. Peters, Director


 


 


2,345


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


32,244


 


 


34,589


 




Rozanne L. Ridgway, Director


 


 


2,576


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


42,974


 


 


45,550


 




Kevin W. Sharer, Director


 


 


878


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


8,108


 


 


8,986


 




Louis W. Sullivan, Director


 


 


1,714


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


19,514


 


 


21,228


 




George W. Buckley, Director, Chairman of the Board, President and
  Chief Executive Officer


 


 


207,910


(4)


 


 


0


 


 


 


0


 


 


207,910


 




W. James McNerney, Jr.,
  Former Director, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer (5)


 


 


98,230


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


0


 


 


98,230


 




Harold J. Wiens,
  Executive Vice President


 


 


65,125


(6)


 


 


372,185


 


 


 


0


 


 


437,310


 




Richard F. Ziegler
  Senior Vice President


 


 


15,732


(7)


 


 


92,376


 


 


 


0


 


 


108,108


 




Patrick D. Campbell
  Chief Financial Officer


 


 


18,601


 


 


 


198,495


 


 


 


0


 


 


217,096


 




Moe S. Nozari
  Executive Vice President


 


 


100,635


 


 


 


343,492


 


 


 


0


 


 


444,127


 




All Directors and
  Executive Officers as a Group (31 persons) (8)


 


 


843,766


 


 


 


2,753,326


 


 


 


179,322


 


 


3,776,414


 




 

FOOTNOTES TO BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP TABLE
(1)  “Common
Stock Beneficially Owned” includes (a) stock held in joint tenancy, (b) stock
owned as tenants in common, (c) stock owned or held by spouse or other
members of the nominee’s household, and (d) stock in which the nominee
either has or shares voting and/or investment power, even though the nominee
disclaims any beneficial interest in such stock. Options exercisable within 60
days after February 28, 2006, are shown separately.
(2)  Option
prices for these shares range from $31.5175 to $86.2000 per share.
32 


(3)  “Shares
Held as Deferred Stock” by nonemployee directors represent the number of shares
of the Company’s common stock, as of February 28, 2006, which the
directors will receive upon termination of membership on the Board of Directors
for any reason. These shares result from the voluntary election by the
nonemployee directors to defer the payment of directors’ fees. No shares of
common stock have as yet been issued, and the directors have neither voting nor
investment powers in these shares of deferred stock.
(4)  Ownership
includes restricted stock units that generally vest over a five-year period if
the executive remains continuously employed by the Company and are subject to
forfeiture under certain circumstances.
(5)  Ownership
reported as of December 31, 2005.
(6)  Ownership
reported as of December 31, 2005, date insider status ended.
(7)  Ownership
includes restricted shares that generally vest in increments of one-third over
a seven-year period if the executive remains continuously employed by the
Company and are subject to forfeiture under certain circumstances.
(8)  All directors and executive
officers as a group owned beneficially less than one percent of the outstanding
common stock of the Company.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF MORE THAN 5 PERCENT STOCKHOLDERS
The
following table sets forth information regarding beneficial ownership of more
than 5 percent of the outstanding 3M stock as of December 31, 2005.




Name/Address


 


 


 


Shares
  Beneficially Owned


 


Percent of
  Stock
  Outstanding


 




State Street Bank and Trust


 


 


60,869,847


 


 


 


8.00


 


 




Company (“State
  Street”) (1)
  225 Franklin Street
  Boston, MA 02110


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Barclays Global Investors, NA (2)


 


 


41,795,442


 


 


 


5.49


 


 




45 Fremont Street
  San Francisco, CA 94105


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 
(1)  State
Street holds 8.0 percent of our outstanding common stock as trustee for certain
3M savings plans, including the Company’s Voluntary Investment Plan and
Employee Stock Ownership Plan, a 401(k) retirement savings plan. Under the
terms of the plans, State Street is required to vote shares allocated to the
accounts of the participants in accordance with instructions received from such
participants. Information is based on a Schedule 13G/A filed with the SEC on February 13,
2006. State Street disclaims beneficial ownership of all of the shares listed
above.
(2)  The address and number of
shares of 3M common stock beneficially owned by Barclays Global Investors, NA
is based on the Schedule 13G filed by Barclays Global Investors, NA with the
SEC on January 27, 2006.
33




SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING
COMPLIANCE
Section 16(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires our directors and executive officers
to file with the Securities Exchange Commission reports regarding their
ownership and changes in ownership of our stock. 3M believes that during 2005,
its directors and executive officers complied with all
Section 16(a) filing requirements. In making this statement, 3M has
relied upon examination of the copies of Forms 3, 4, and 5 and the written
representations of its directors and executive officers.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
Summary Compensation Table
The
following table sets forth certain compensation information for each of the
individuals who served as the chief executive officer of 3M during 2005, as well
as the four other executive officers of 3M who, based on their salary and bonus
compensation, were the most highly compensated for 2005 (the “Named Executive
Officers”). All information set forth in this table reflects compensation
earned by these individuals for services in 2005, as well as their compensation
in 2004 and 2003.







 


 


 


Annual Compensation


 


Long-Term Compensation


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


Awards


 


Payouts


 


 


 




Name and Principal Position


 


Year


 


Salary ($)


 


Profit Sharing
  (Bonus)
  ($)(1)


 


Other Annual
  Compensation
  ($)(2)


 


Restricted
  Stock
  Awards ($)(3)


 


Options Granted
  #-Number
  of Shares (4)


 


Performance
  Unit Plan
  (LTIP)
  Payouts ($)


 


All Other
  Compensation
  ($)(5)


 




George W. Buckley


 


2005


 


115,152


 


 


212,135


 


 


 


0


 


 


16,146,682


 


 


250,000


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


0


 


 




Chairman of the Board,


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




President  and Chief 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Executive
  Officer 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




(December 6,
  2005)


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Robert S. Morrison


 


2005


 


604,545


 


 


828,808


 


 


 


22,426


 


 


0


 


 


92,632


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


6,739


 


 




Interim Chairman of 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




the Board and Chief 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Executive Officer


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




(June 30-Dec
  6, 2005)


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




W. James McNerney, Jr.


 


2005


 


856,729


 


 


1,727,546


 


 


 


263,763


 


 


0


 


 


270,160


 


 


 


5,293,020


 


 


 


302,553


 


 




Chairman of the


 


2004


 


1,624,333


 


 


3,522,149


 


 


 


467,233


 


 


0


 


 


436,247


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


318,418


 


 




Board and Chief


 


2003


 


1,540,000


 


 


3,222,459


 


 


 


163,157


 


 


0


 


 


462,432


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


51,745


 


 




Executive Officer


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




(resigned June 30,


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




2005)


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Richard F. Ziegler


 


2005


 


667,800


 


 


802,981


 


 


 


1,969


 


 


0


 


 


45,926


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


79,475


 


 




Senior
  Vice President,


 


2004


 


636,000


 


 


823,473


 


 


 


4,927


 


 


0


 


 


50,201


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


87,010


 


 




Legal
  Affairs and


 


2003


 


600,000


 


 


775,311


 


 


 


29,705


 


 


760,500


 


 


46,000


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


19,054


 


 




General
  Counsel


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Harold J. Wiens


 


2005


 


666,839


 


 


528,566


 


 


 


120,127


 


 


0


 


 


120,789


 


 


 


709,920


 


 


 


95,603


 


 




Executive Vice


 


2004


 


641,191


 


 


828,512


 


 


 


83,832


 


 


0


 


 


109,581


 


 


 


434,906


 


 


 


94,404


 


 




President


 


2003


 


618,512


 


 


406,147


 


 


 


61,190


 


 


0


 


 


92,636


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


8,807


 


 




Patrick
  D. Campbell


 


2005


 


626,301


 


 


487,218


 


 


 


5,909


 


 


0


 


 


71,185


 


 


 


709,920


 


 


 


82,180


 


 




Senior
  Vice President


 


2004


 


590,850


 


 


501,092


 


 


 


0


 


 


0


 


 


72,162


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


68,941


 


 




and Chief
  Financial


 


2003


 


540,111


 


 


442,392


 


 


 


6,677


 


 


0


 


 


44,000


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


26,517


 


 




Officer


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Moe S. Nozari


 


2005


 


586,460


 


 


439,345


 


 


 


3,049


 


 


0


 


 


130,652


 


 


 


709,920


 


 


 


47,017


 


 




Executive Vice


 


2004


 


559,392


 


 


482,631


 


 


 


5,574


 


 


0


 


 


113,593


 


 


 


437,520


 


 


 


45,818


 


 




President


 


2003


 


536,240


 


 


407,509


 


 


 


5,174


 


 


0


 


 


103,054


 


 


 


424,800


 


 


 


8,807


 


 




 
34 


FOOTNOTES
TO SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE
(1)   Generally, profit sharing is paid in cash;
however, the Named Executive Officers have in the past, and may in the future,
receive a portion of their profit sharing in restricted shares of the Company’s
common stock as determined by the Compensation Committee. For Mr. Ziegler,
in 2005 Bonus includes $283,333 of a signing bonus payable to him in accordance
with his employment agreement with the Company.
(2)   “Other Annual Compensation” includes
perquisites or other personal benefits received by the named individuals to the
extent that the aggregate amount thereof exceeds the lesser of $50,000, or 10 percent
of the total base salary and profit sharing earned by such individual during
the year, amounts reimbursed to individuals during the year for payment of taxes
and that portion of interest above market rates (as determined by the SEC) paid
on that compensation voluntarily deferred by the individuals. For 2005, Mr. McNerney’s
Other Annual Compensation includes $73,346 for the incremental cost of
Company-required personal use of corporate aircraft.
(3)   Value as of the
date of grant. As of December 31, 2005, Mr. Buckley held 207,808
restricted stock units that had a value of $16,105,120. These units were
granted to Mr. Buckley on December 6, 2005, in accordance with his
employment agreement with the Company. 50,000 of these units vest in increments
of 20 percent on the 6th of December in the years 2006 through 2010 if he
remains continuously employed by the Company. The Company will grant Mr. Buckley
additional restricted stock units in lieu of dividends on these 50,000 units
during the vesting period. 25,000 of the restricted stock units vest on December 31,
2006, while the remaining 132,808 restricted stock units vest on December 6,
2010, if Mr. Buckley remains continuously employed by the Company. Dividend
equivalents in the form of cash will be paid to Mr. Buckley on these
157,808 units during the vesting period. As of December 31, 2005, Mr. Ziegler
held 12,000 shares of restricted stock that had a value of $960,000. These
shares resulted from a grant of 12,000 shares of restricted stock made to Mr. Ziegler
in accordance with his employment agreement with the Company. These shares vest
in increments of 33-1/3 percent on the 1st of
January in the years 2006, 2008, and 2010 if he remains continuously employed
by the Company. Dividends are paid on this restricted stock to the same extent
and at the same time the Company pays dividends on its common stock. (For more
information about these restricted stock units and this restricted stock, see
the section entitled “Employment Contracts, Termination of Employment, and
Change-in-Control Arrangements.”
(4)   The number of stock options shown in this
column includes both annual grants of incentive and nonqualified stock options
and Progressive Stock Options, which are described more fully in footnote 1 to
the Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year Table.
(5)   ”All Other
Compensation” includes: (a)  the dollar value of premiums paid on behalf
of the individual under the whole life or universal life insurance policies
issued to them under the Executive Life Insurance Plan; and (b) all
amounts contributed by the Company to the account of each named executive under
the Company’s 401(k) plans. For 2005, the dollar value of the premiums
paid on behalf of the Named Executive Officers under the whole life or
universal life insurance policies issued to them under the Executive Life
Insurance Plan were $262,937 for Mr. McNerney, $67,474 for Mr. Ziegler,
$85,492 for Mr. Wiens, $62,151 for Mr. Campbell, and $36,906 for Dr. Nozari.
During 2005 the amounts contributed by the Company to the accounts of the Named
Executive Officers under the Company’s 401(k) plans were $6,739 for Mr. Morrison,
$39,616 for Mr. McNerney, $12,001 for Mr. Ziegler, $10,111 for Mr. Wiens,
$20,029 for Mr. Campbell, and $10,111 for Dr. Nozari.
35 


Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year
The
following table shows all grants of options to acquire shares of 3M common
stock granted in 2005 to the Named Executive Officers.




 


 


Individual Grants


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


Name


 


 


Options
  Granted (#)(1)


 


% of Total
  Options
  Granted
  to Employees in
  Fiscal Year


 


Exercise or
  Base Price
  ($/Sh)(2)


 


Expiration
  Date(3)


 


Grant Date
  Present Value ($)(4)


 




G. W. Buckley


 


 


250,000


 


 


 


2.058


%


 


 


$


78.150


 


 


12/6/2015


 


 


$


4,647,500


 


 




R. S. Morrison


 


 


44,236


 


 


 


0.364


%


 


 


$


77.550


 


 


11/14/2015


 


 


$


816,154


 


 




 


 


 


48,396


 


 


 


0.398


%


 


 


$


72.650


 


 


8/8/2015


 


 


$


836,283


 


 




W. J. McNerney, Jr.


 


 


270,160


 


 


 


2.224


%


 


 


$


76.800


 


 


5/10/2015


 


 


$


4,935,823


 


 




R. F. Ziegler


 


 


45,926


 


 


 


0.378


%


 


 


$


76.800


 


 


5/10/2015


 


 


$


839,068


 


 




H. J. Wiens


 


 


58,769


 


 


 


0.483


%


 


 


$


76.800


 


 


5/10/2015


 


 


$


1,073,710


 


 







 


 


62,020


 


 


 


0.510


%


 


 


$


77.200


 


 


5/6/2011


 


 


$


848,434


 


 




P. D. Campbell


 


 


71,185


 


 


 


0.586


%


 


 


$


76.800


 


 


5/10/2015


 


 


$


1,300,550


 


 




M. S. Nozari


 


 


50,518


 


 


 


0.416


%


 


 


$


76.800


 


 


5/10/2015


 


 


$


922,964


 


 







 


 


29,218


 


 


 


0.240


%


 


 


$


86.000


 


 


5/13/2013


 


 


$


378,870


 


 







 


 


20,565


 


 


 


0.169


%


 


 


$


86.000


 


 


5/6/2011


 


 


$


266,666


 


 







 


 


30,351


 


 


 


0.249


%


 


 


$


86.000


 


 


5/6/2011


 


 


$


393,561


 


 




All Optionees


 


 


12,143,718


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


77.136


 


 


5/10/2015


 


 


$


218,181,104


 


 






























 
FOOTNOTES
TO OPTION GRANTS IN LAST FISCAL YEAR TABLE
(1)   The Company did not grant any stock
appreciation rights (“SARs”) during 2005. The options shown for each individual
include both annual grants of nonqualified stock options and grants of
Progressive Stock Options (“PSOs”). Nonqualified options granted to certain
participants prior to 2005 are subject to a reload feature when exercised with
the payment of the option price in the form of previously owned shares of the
Company’s common stock. Such an exercise results in further grants of PSOs. The
first grant shown for each individual is the annual grant. The remaining lines
are PSOs. The PSO grants for each individual were made on a single date, but
are, pursuant to SEC rules, shown in multiple lines because of different
expiration dates.
PSO grants were made to certain participants who
exercised nonqualified stock options granted prior to 2005 and who paid the
purchase price using shares of previously owned Company common stock. The PSO
grant is for the number of shares equal to the shares utilized in payment of
the purchase price and tax withholding, if any. The option price for the PSO is
equal to 100 percent of the market value of the Company’s common stock on the
date of the exercise of the primary option. The option period is equal to the
remaining period of the options exercised.
The participant must have owned Company common stock
used for payment for at least six months, and only one exercise of nonqualified
options per participant per calendar year will be eligible for PSO grants by
the Compensation Committee.
The presence of PSOs encourages early exercise of
nonqualified stock options, without foregoing the opportunity for further
appreciation, and promotes retention of the Company stock acquired.
In any event, a participant receiving an annual grant
of nonqualified stock options can never acquire more shares of Company common
stock through successive exercises of the primary option 
36 


and subsequent PSO grants than
the number of shares covered by the primary annual option grant from the
Committee.
(2)   All options granted during the period were
granted at the market value on the date of grant, as calculated from the
average of the high and low prices reported on the New York Stock Exchange
Composite Index. The option price shown for the “All Optionees” line is
$77.136  and represents the
weighted-average exercise price of the options granted in 2005.
(3)   The expiration date for the “All Optionees”
line is shown as May 10, 2015, since that is the applicable date for the
vast majority of options granted during 2005.
(4)   Pursuant
to the rules of the SEC, the Company has elected to provide a grant date
present value for these option grants determined by a modified Black-Scholes
pricing model. The Company’s use of this model should not be construed as an
endorsement of its accuracy at valuing options. All stock option valuation
models, including the Black-Scholes model, require a prediction about the
future movement of the stock price. Among key assumptions utilized in this
pricing model were: (i) that the time of exercise of stock options would
be 69 months (40 months for PSOs) into the term of the option, which could be
for terms as long as ten years, in recognition of the historical exercise
patterns at the Company for these types of options; (ii) expected
volatility of 23.5 percent (20.9 percent for PSOs); (iii) risk-free rate
of return of 4.0 percent (3.7 percent for PSOs); and (iv) dividend yield
rate of 2.0 percent. No adjustments for non-transferability or risk of
forfeiture have been made. The Company expresses no opinion that the present
value will, in fact, be realized and expressly disclaims any representation to
that effect.
Aggregated
Option Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End Option Values
The
following table provides information on option exercises during 2005 and the
value of unexercised options at the end of 2005 for the Named Executive
Officers. 




Aggregated Option Exercises in Last Fiscal Year, and FY-End Option Value


 




 


 


Shares
  Acquired on


 


Value Realized


 


Number Of Unexercised
  Options at FY-End (#)


 


Value of Unexercised
  In-the-Money Options
  At FY-End ($)(1)


 




Name


 


Exercise (#)


 


($)(1)


 


Exercisable


 


Unexercisable


 


Exercisable


 


Unexercisable


 




G. W. Buckley


 


 


0


 


 


$


0.00


 


 


0


 


 


 


250,000


 


 


$


0.00


 


$


0.00


 




R. S. Morrison


 


 


0


 


 


$


0.00


 


 


0


 


 


 


92,632


 


 


$


0.00


 


$


234,720.60


 




W.J. McNerney, Jr.


 


 


2,171,105


 


 


$


32,360,724.98


 


 


0


 


 


 


0


 


 


$


0.00


 


$


0.00


 




R. F. Ziegler


 


 


0


 


 


$


0.00


 


 


92,376


 


 


 


45,926


 


 


$


660,038.75


 


$


32,148.20


 




H. J. Wiens


 


 


71,935


 


 


$


1,335,473.27


 


 


372,185


 


 


 


58,769


 


 


$


2,956,774.77


 


41,138.30


 




P. D. Campbell


 


 


0


 


 


$


0.00


 


 


191,463


 


 


 


71,185


 


 


$


1,968,454.02


 


$


49,829.50


 




M. S. Nozari


 


 


103,293


 


 


$


2,719,894.18


 


 


343,492


 


 


 


50,518


 


 


$


2,220,557.65


 


$


35,362.60


 




Total


 


 


2,346,333


 


 


$


36,416,092.43


 


 


999,516


 


 


 


569,030


 


 


$


7,805,825.19


 


$


393,199.20


 




 
(1)   None of the Named Executive Officers
exercised any stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) during 2005, or held any
unexercised SARs at the end of 2005. The “Value Realized” or the unrealized
“Value of Unexercised In-the-Money Options at FY-End” represents the aggregate
difference between the market value on the date of exercise or at
December 31, 2005, in the case of the unrealized values, and the
applicable exercise prices. These differences accumulate over what may be, in
many cases, several years. These stock options all have option periods of 10
years when first granted, and Progressive Stock Options have option periods
equal to the remaining option period of the primary nonqualified options
resulting in Progressive Stock Options.
 
37




Long-Term
Incentive Plan Awards Table
The
following table shows information on awards during 2005 under the Company’s
Performance Unit Plan for the Named Executive Officers.




 


 


Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards in Last Fiscal Year


 




 


 


Number of
  Shares, Units
  or Other 


 


Performance or
  Other Period
  Until Maturation 


 


Estimated Future Payouts
  Under Non-Stock Price Based Plans


 




Name


 


 


 


Rights (#)(1)


 


or Payout (2)


 


Threshold ($)


 


Target ($)


 


Maximum ($)


 




G. W. Buckley(3)


 


 


11,112


 


 


 


3 years


 


 


 


$


0


 


 


$


1,333,440


 


$


4,000,320


 




 


 


 


5,556


 


 


 


3 years


 


 


 


$


0


 


 


$


666,720


 


$


2,000,160


 




R. S. Morrison


 


 


0


 


 


 


3 years


 


 


 


$


0


 


 


$


0


 


$


0


 




W. J.
  McNerney, Jr.


 


 


23,535


 


 


 


3 years


 


 


 


$


0


 


 


$


2,824,200


 


$


8,472,600


 




R. F. Ziegler


 


 


4,000


 


 


 


3 years


 


 


 


$


0


 


 


$


480,000


 


$


1,440,000


 




H. J. Wiens


 


 


4,400


 


 


 


3 years


 


 


 


$


0


 


 


$


528,000


 


$


1,584,000


 




P. D. Campbell


 


 


6,200


 


 


 


3 years


 


 


 


$


0


 


 


$


744,000


 


$


2,232,000


 




M. S. Nozari


 


 


4,400


 


 


 


3 years


 


 


 


$


0


 


 


$


528,000


 


$


1,584,000


 





























 
FOOTNOTES
TO LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AWARDS TABLE
(1)  The
Company’s Performance Unit Plan (the “Plan”) provides long-term compensation to
approximately 115 key management personnel based upon the Company’s attainment
of long-term performance and growth criteria.
The Compensation Committee administers the Plan. The
Committee has sole discretion in the selection of participants, performance
criteria, size of awards, performance period, and the timing and form of
payment, as well as all other conditions regarding awards.
Awards made in 2005 under the Performance Unit Plan
are based on performance criteria that focus management attention on two key
factors that create stockholder value: Economic Profit Growth and Sales Growth.
The payout can vary from $0 to $360 per unit. More detail about current
performance goals is available in the Report of the Compensation Committee.
The right to receive
payment is contingent upon continued employment to the payment date, and is
subject to forfeiture prior to the payment date in the event of termination of
employment for any reason other than retirement under a pension plan of the
Company, death, or physical or mental disability. Participants receiving awards
during 2005, including the Named Executive Officers, will receive payment in
2008, provided that such individuals continue employment with the Company until
such payment date (except in the event of death, retirement, or disability).
Payment under the Plan may be made in cash, shares of the Company’s common
stock, or any combination of cash and stock, at the discretion of the
Compensation Committee. In the past, payment has been made only in cash.
(2)  The value of awards granted for 2005 will be determined by the
Company’s attainment of Economic Profit Growth and Sales Growth performance
criteria during a three-year performance period of 2005, 2006, and 2007. More
detail about current performance goals is available in the Report of the
Compensation Committee.
(3)  As required by his
employment agreement with the Company, the Compensation Committee made two
awards to Mr. Buckley upon the commencement of his employment. The first
award, for 11,112 units, is with respect to the three-year performance period
of 2005, 2006, and
2007. The value of this award will be determined in the same manner as the
other awards made under the Plan during 2005. The second award, for 5,556
units, is with respect to the performance period of 2004, 2005, and 2006. As
described in the previous year’s proxy statement, the value of this award will
be determined by the Company’s attainment of Economic Profit Growth, Sales
Growth, and Improvement in Net 
38 


Working
Capital Turns performance criteria during such three-year period ending in
2006. More detail about these three performance goals is available in last year’s
Report of the Compensation Committee.
Employment
Contracts, Termination of Employment, and
Change-In-Control Arrangements
Chief
Executive Officer — George W. Buckley
3M has entered into an employment agreement with
George W. Buckley providing for his employment as President and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company and for his election as Chairman of the Board of
Directors of 3M. The agreement is effective December 6, 2005, and has an
initial term of three years. Beginning on December 6, 2006, the agreement
automatically extends itself so that the remaining term of the agreement is
always two years. However, the term will end on Mr. Buckley’s 65th
birthday (February 23, 2012) unless the parties otherwise agree.
Base Salary — The agreement provides that Mr. Buckley will
receive an annual base salary of $1,600,000. This base salary will be reviewed
at least annually and may be increased by the Compensation Committee of the
Board, but may not be decreased without Mr. Buckley’s consent.
Bonus — The agreement provides that Mr. Buckley will be
eligible to participate in the Company’s Executive Profit Sharing Plan. His
target annual bonus under such Plan will be the greater of $2,600,000 and 150
percent of his annual base salary. The amount of the annual bonus actually paid
to Mr. Buckley will depend on his performance and the performance of the
Company, and may range from zero to a maximum of 150 percent of his target
annual bonus. This annual bonus will be paid to Mr. Buckley at times and
in a manner (cash, stock or a combination of cash and stock) consistent with
the payment of annual bonuses to other senior executives of the Company. For
2006 only, Mr. Buckley’s annual bonus may not be less than $2,600,000.
Initial
Grants — On the effective date of the agreement, Mr. Buckley
was granted nonqualified options to purchase 250,000 shares of 3M common stock
at the fair market value of a share of 3M common stock on that date ($78.15). These
options have a ten-year term, and become exercisable in increments of 20
percent on each of the first five anniversaries of the grant
date assuming continued employment with the Company. These options become
vested and exercisable in full upon Mr. Buckley’s death or termination due
to disability, or upon a change of control of the Company.
On the effective date of the agreement, Mr. Buckley
was also granted 50,000 restricted stock units with respect to shares of 3M
common stock. These restricted stock units will vest in increments of 20
percent on each of the first five anniversaries of the grant date assuming
continued employment with the Company. Dividend equivalents in the form of
additional restricted stock units will be provided during the vesting period. These
restricted stock units become vested in full upon Mr. Buckley’s death or
termination due to disability, or upon a change of control of the Company.
Subsequent Grants — The agreement provides that at the same time in
2006 that the Company grants stock options to its other senior executives, Mr. Buckley
will be granted nonqualified stock options having a Black-Scholes value of
$6,000,000. The Compensation Committee will consider granting Mr. Buckley
additional stock options in 2007 and years subsequent thereto, based on his
performance and consistent with its treatment of other senior executives of the
Company.
Performance Unit Plan
Awards — On the
effective date of the agreement, Mr. Buckley was awarded 16,667
performance units under 3M’s Performance Unit Plan with respect to each of the
performance periods beginning in 2004 and 2005. Each award has a target value of
$2,000,000, although the ultimate value of each award will depend on the
performance of the Company during the respective three-year performance period.
Assuming that he remains employed by the Company through the end of the
respective performance periods for such awards, Mr. Buckley will receive 
39 


payment for
one-third of the value of the 2004 performance units and two-thirds of the
value of the 2005 performance units.
The agreement provides that at the same time in 2006
that the Company makes Performance Unit Plan awards to its other senior
executives, Mr. Buckley will be awarded 16,667 performance units with
respect to the three-year performance period beginning in 2006. This award will
have a target value of $2,000,000, although the ultimate value of the award
will depend on the performance of the Company during the performance period.
Mr. Buckley must remain employed by the Company through the end of this
three-year performance period in order to receive payment for this award.
Make Whole Grants —
In order to replace the
unvested restricted stock units that he will forfeit as a result of leaving his
previous employer, Mr. Buckley was granted (on the effective date of the
agreement) 157,808 restricted stock units with respect to shares of 3M common
stock. 25,000 of these restricted stock units will vest on December 31,
2006 and the remaining 132,808 restricted stock units will vest on December 6,
2010, assuming continued employment with the Company. Dividend equivalents in
the form of cash will be paid to Mr. Buckley during the vesting period. These
restricted stock units become vested in full upon Mr. Buckley’s death or
termination due to disability, or upon a change of control of the Company.
In order to replace the annual bonus and long-term
incentive compensation that he will forfeit as a result of leaving his previous
employer, the agreement provides that the Company will pay Mr. Buckley a
cash bonus of $4,117,500 on or before March 15, 2006.
Benefits — The agreement
provides that Mr. Buckley will be entitled to participate in all of the
retirement and welfare benefit programs of the Company offered to its other
senior executives. The Company will pay $95,000 in annual premiums on life
insurance policies owned by Mr. Buckley. Mr. Buckley will be entitled
to four weeks of paid vacation per year. In the event Mr. Buckley remains
employed by the Company until his 62nd birthday and his employment is
terminated thereafter for a reason other than cause, he will be deemed to have retired for
purposes of the Company’s equity and benefit plans except to the extent
inconsistent with the provisions of his employment agreement.
Relocation — The agreement
provides that the Company will pay Mr. Buckley’s reasonable expenses of
relocating his primary residence to the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, consistent
with the Company’s relocation policies applicable to other senior executives. If
payment of these relocation expenses results in taxable income to Mr. Buckley,
the Company will make an additional payment to Mr. Buckley (a gross-up)
with which he may pay the taxes on such income. The Company has agreed to
purchase Mr. Buckley’s current principal residence at its then prevailing
value (to be determined by an appraiser mutually agreeable to both parties) if
he is unable to complete the sale of such residence on or prior to December 31,
2006.
Perquisites — The agreement
provides that Mr. Buckley will be eligible for the same perquisites that
the Company makes available to its other senior executives. Both Mr. Buckley
and his family will be entitled to use the aircraft owned by the Company for
business and personal purposes. The Company will provide Mr. Buckley with
an automobile and driver for travel in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, and with
an additional luxury automobile for which the Company will pay all insurance,
maintenance, gasoline, and other operating expenses. The Company will provide
appropriate security at Mr. Buckley’s personal residences.
Supplemental Retirement Benefit —
The agreement provides that Mr. Buckley will earn a supplemental
retirement benefit payable in the form of a lump sum at the time of his
termination of employment. The amount of this benefit will be the actuarially
equivalent present value of the amount by which (a) a single life annuity
payable for Mr. Buckley’s lifetime commencing at age 60 (or, if later, on
the date of his termination of employment) equal to 40 percent of his highest
average annual cash 
40 


compensation
(base salary plus bonus) during any three consecutive years during his final
ten years of employment, exceeds (b) the sum of his actual pension
benefits payable at age 60 (or, if later, on the date of his termination of
employment) under the plans of the Company and his previous employers. The
benefit formula for this supplemental retirement benefit increases by 2 percent
(from 40 percent) for each full year following Mr. Buckley’s 60th birthday
that he remains employed by the Company, up to a maximum of 50 percent. This
supplemental retirement benefit vests in full on December 6, 2010, or upon
Mr. Buckley’s death or termination due to disability. In the event of Mr. Buckley’s
death or termination due to disability prior to his 60th birthday, the benefit
formula increases to 50 percent, the annuity amounts described in (a) and (b) above
are those commencing at age 65, and the entire benefit amount is multiplied by
a fraction, the numerator of which is Mr. Buckley’s years of service with
the Company through his date of death or termination and the denominator of
which is 6.
Severance — The agreement
provides that in the event the Company terminates Mr. Buckley’s employment
without cause or if he terminates his
employment with Good Reason, Mr. Buckley would receive: (a) cash
severance equal to two times the sum of his annual base salary and target
annual bonus payable in the form of 24 equal monthly installments (or in the
form of an immediate lump sum if the termination follows a change in control of
the Company), (b) a pro rata portion of the annual bonus that Mr. Buckley
would have been eligible to receive for the year of termination, (c) if a
change in control of the Company causes any payment upon his termination of
employment to be subject to the excise tax imposed by section 4999 of the
Internal Revenue Code, a tax gross-up payment with which to pay such tax and
the additional taxes payable as a result of such payment, and (d) immediate
vesting of the stock options, restricted stock units, performance units and
supplemental retirement benefit provided under the agreement, and continued
welfare benefits for the period that cash severance benefits are payable. No
severance benefits (other than accrued salary and benefits) are payable in the
event of the termination of Mr. Buckley’s employment by the Company for cause
or by Mr. Buckley without good reason.
Non-Competition — During his
employment by the Company and for a period of 2 years thereafter (but for an
unlimited period with respect to the disclosure of the Company’s confidential
information), Mr. Buckley has agreed to comply with restrictive covenants
prohibiting the disclosure of the Company’s confidential information, the
solicitation of the Company’s customer, vendors and employees, the performance
of services for a competitor of the Company, and the acquisition of an
ownership interest in a competitor of the Company.
Reimbursement of Fees — The
agreement provides that the Company will pay Mr. Buckley’s reasonable
legal and other professional fees incurred in connection with the completion of
his employment agreement, up to a maximum of $125,000, and pay him a tax
gross-up payment with respect to its payments of such fees.
In the event of any dispute between the Company and Mr. Buckley
regarding his right to compensation and benefits under his employment
agreement, and if Mr. Buckley prevails in such dispute, the Company will
reimburse Mr. Buckley for the amount of his reasonable legal fees and
other expenses incurred during such dispute.
Indemnification — The agreement provides that Mr. Buckley will be
indemnified by the Company against liability as an officer and director of the
Company to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law.
41 


Former
Chief Executive Officer — W. James McNerney, Jr.
Prior to his resignation from the Company effective June 30,
2005, 3M had entered into an employment agreement with W. James McNerney, Jr.
providing for his employment as Chief Executive Officer of the Company and for
his election as Chairman of the Board of 3M. The following description of the
terms and conditions of this employment agreement is included for purposes of
compliance with Regulation S-K as issued by the SEC, even though this agreement
terminated upon the effective date of his resignation and the Company has
satisfied all of its obligations under this agreement.
The initial term of the agreement ends on January 1,
2005, but, beginning on January 1, 2002, the term automatically extends so
that the remaining term is always two years. The agreement provides for an
initial base salary of $1,300,000 per year and for annual profit sharing initially
designed to pay $2,200,000 per year, depending on the Company’s performance.
The agreement also recognizes that Mr. McNerney will be entitled to
participate in the same retirement and welfare benefit programs that the
Company provides to other senior executives.
The agreement also required 3M to grant Mr. McNerney
the following stock options, restricted stock, and performance units under the
Performance Unit Plan:
Stock Options — Effective December 4, 2000, Mr. McNerney
was granted options to purchase 1,200,000 shares of 3M common stock at $51.525
per share. A portion of these options was designed to compensate Mr. McNerney
for the restricted stock and stock options he forfeited upon leaving his prior
employer. 800,000 of these options become exercisable in increments of 20
percent on the 1st of January in
the years 2002 through 2006, and the remaining 400,000 of these options become
exercisable in increments of one-third on the 1st of January in the years
2002 through 2004, in each case assuming he remains employed by the Company.
All 1,200,000 options will become exercisable in full immediately upon
termination of Mr. McNerney’s employment by reason of death or disability,
termination without cause, a termination for good reason, or a change in control
of the Company.
Restricted Stock —
In order to compensate Mr. McNerney
for the restricted stock and stock options he forfeited upon leaving his prior
employer, the Company also granted Mr. McNerney 220,000 shares of
restricted stock. These shares of restricted stock vest in increments of 10
percent on the 1st of January in
the years 2002 through 2011, assuming he remains employed by the Company,
although such vesting accelerates in the event of the termination of Mr. McNerney’s
employment by reason of death or disability, termination without cause, a
termination for good reason, or a change in control of the Company.
Performance Units —
The Company granted Mr. McNerney
10,000 performance units for the performance period commencing January 1,
2001, and ending December 31, 2003, subject to the terms of the Company’s
Performance Unit Plan. The value of these units and the amount paid to Mr. McNerney
will depend on the performance of the Company, but in no event will the value
be less than $100 per unit nor more than $200 per unit.
The agreement also requires 3M to provide Mr. McNerney
supplemental retirement benefits. If he remains employed by 3M for at least ten
years, the supplemental benefits will be equal in value to an annuity payable
for his lifetime commencing at age 62 and based on 50 percent of his highest
average annual compensation over a three-year period. If Mr. McNerney is
employed by 3M for less than ten years, the amount of these supplemental
retirement benefits will be prorated accordingly. The amount of such benefits
will be reduced by the amount of his benefits under 3M’s pension plans or the
pension plans of his prior employer. These supplemental retirement benefits
vest after five years of employment with the Company, although they vest immediately
in the event of the termination of his employment by reason of death or
disability, termination without cause, a termination for good reason, or a
change in control of the Company. Due to his resignation from the Company
effective 
42 


June 30, 2005, Mr. McNerney
forfeited all of the supplemental retirement benefits provided for under the
agreement.
In the event that Mr. McNerney’s
employment is terminated by the Company other than for cause, or if Mr. McNerney
terminates his employment for good reason, then he will receive a lump-sum cash
payment equal to three times his annual base salary and profit sharing. As a
condition to receiving such payment, Mr. McNerney would be required to
sign a release of all claims against the Company. Due to his resignation from
the Company effective June 30, 2005, Mr. McNerney was not entitled to
receive and the Company did not make any severance payment as provided for
under the agreement.
Former
Chief Executive Officer — Robert S. Morrison
During the period between Mr. McNerney’s
resignation and Mr. Buckley’s hiring, Robert S. Morrison, a member of the
Board of Directors, served as the interim Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company. While Mr. Morrison did not have an
employment contract with the Company, the following description of his
compensation plan while employed as interim Chief Executive Officer is included
for purposes of compliance with Regulation S-K as issued by the SEC since the
plan treats his resignation from employment as Chief Executive Officer as a
retirement for purposes of the Company’s Management Stock Ownership Program.
On August 8, 2005, the Compensation Committee of
the Board of Directors of the Company approved (and the independent directors
of the Board ratified, as necessary) a compensation plan (the “Plan”) for
Robert S. Morrison relating to his service as interim Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”)
of the Company (the “Service”). Mr. Morrison, a director
of the Company since 2002, served as interim CEO from June 30, 2005, until
the effective date of Mr. Buckley’s hiring on December 6, 2005.
Pursuant to the Plan, Mr. Morrison received for
his Service an annual base salary of $1,200,000 and annual profit sharing
initially designed to pay $1,440,000 per year, depending on the Company’s
performance, both of which amounts were prorated based on the length of his
Service. Under the Plan, the Compensation Committee also did grant to Mr. Morrison
nonqualified stock options to purchase 92,632 shares of 3M common stock,
subject to the terms of the 2005 Management Stock Ownership Program. These
options are exercisable for a ten-year term and vest in annual installments
over a three-year period. The options were granted in two quarterly
installments, with one option (for 48,396 shares) having an exercise price of
$72.65 per share and the second option (for 44,236 shares) having an exercise
price of $77.55 per share. The Plan included Mr. Morrison’s waiver of
participation in the Company’s pension plans, together with the Compensation
Committee’s interpretation of the MSOP to recognize that his resignation from
Service as CEO following the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer would
be deemed a “Retirement” for the purpose of the MSOP to preserve the ten-year
option term.
In addition, under the Plan, Mr. Morrison
was entitled to the reimbursement of his reasonable temporary housing expenses
and the use of Company aircraft and Company-furnished automobile with a driver.
The Company did also agree to provide Mr. Morrison a tax gross-up payment
to cover the income taxes payable on any imputed income resulting from such
reimbursement or use. Payment of the annual retainer for Mr. Morrison’s
services as a nonemployee director on the Company’s Board of Directors was
suspended while he served as CEO.
Chief Financial Officer
3M has also entered into an employment agreement with
Patrick D. Campbell providing for his employment as Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of the Company. The term of this agreement began on February 1,
2002, and ended on February 1, 2005, subject to the survival of certain
specified provisions pertaining to stock options, retiree medical benefits,
vacation, gross up for excise taxes, supplemental retirement benefits, and
termination benefits. Since February 1, 2005, 
43 


Mr. Campbell’s employment
has been governed by the same terms and conditions that apply to other similar
executives of the Company in addition to the surviving provisions of his
employment agreement described above. The agreement provided for an initial
base salary of $450,000 per year and for annual profit sharing initially
designed to pay $300,000 per year, depending on the Company’s performance. The
agreement also recognized that Mr. Campbell would be entitled to
participate in certain retirement and welfare benefit programs that the Company
provides to other senior executives, and would be entitled to reimbursement of
his reasonable relocation expenses. For purposes of 3M’s postretirement medical
program, Mr. Campbell was credited with an opening retiree medical credit
balance as if he had completed 12 years of service with the Company.
The agreement also required 3M to grant Mr. Campbell
the following stock options, restricted stock, and performance units under the
Performance Unit Plan:
Stock Options — Effective February 1, 2002, Mr. Campbell
was granted options to purchase 48,000 shares of 3M common stock at $55.965 per
share. These options become exercisable in increments of one-third on the 1st of February in
the years 2003 through 2005. All 48,000 options will become exercisable in full
immediately upon termination of Mr. Campbell’s employment by reason of
death or disability, termination without cause, or termination for good reason,
and in that event such options shall remain exercisable for up to two years
following Mr. Campbell’s death, the termination of his employment due to
disability, termination without cause, or termination for good reason. In
addition, any portion of these 48,000 options that have already become
exercisable may be exercised by Mr. Campbell within 90 days following his
resignation from the Company without good reason.
In May 2002, Mr. Campbell was granted
options to purchase 40,000 shares of 3M common stock at $64.50 per share. All
40,000 options will become exercisable in full immediately upon termination of Mr. Campbell’s
employment by reason of death or disability, termination without cause, or
termination for good reason, and in that event such options shall remain
exercisable for up to two years following Mr. Campbell’s death, the
termination of his employment due to disability, termination without cause, or
termination for good reason. In addition, any portion of these 40,000 options
that have already become exercisable may be exercised by Mr. Campbell
within 90 days following his resignation from the Company without good reason.
Restricted Stock —
The Company also granted Mr. Campbell
6,000 shares of restricted stock. These shares vest in increments of one-third
on the 1st of February in
the years 2003 through 2005.
Performance Units —
The Company granted Mr. Campbell
2,400 performance units for the performance period commencing January 1,
2002, and ending December 31, 2004, subject to the terms of the Company’s
Performance Unit Plan. These units did vest and were paid out in cash to Mr. Campbell
at the end of such three-year performance period.
The agreement also requires 3M to provide Mr. Campbell
supplemental retirement benefits. If he remains employed by 3M for at least ten
years, the supplemental benefits will be payable in the form of an annuity
payable for his lifetime commencing at age 60 and based on 45 percent of his
highest average annual compensation over a four-year period. If Mr. Campbell
is employed by 3M for less than ten years, the amount of these supplemental
retirement benefits will be prorated accordingly. The amount of such benefits
will be reduced by the amount of his benefits under 3M’s pension plans and the
pension plans of his prior employer. Once he completed two years of employment
with 3M, the agreement provided that the sum of these supplemental retirement
benefits and the benefits payable under 3M’s pension plans would not be less
than $100,000 per year. These supplemental retirement benefits (other than the
$100,000 minimum benefit, which vested after two years of employment with the
Company) vest after five years of employment with the Company, although they
vest immediately in the event of the termination of his employment by reason of
death or disability, termination without cause, or termination for good reason.
44




In the event that
Mr. Campbell’s employment is terminated by the Company other than for
cause, or if Mr. Campbell terminates his employment for a good reason,
then he will receive a lump-sum payment equal to (i) two times his annual
base salary and profit sharing if such termination occurs during the first five
years following his employment commencement date, or (ii) one times his
annual base salary and profit sharing if such termination occurs more than five
but no more than ten years following his employment commencement date. As a
condition to receiving such payment, Mr. Campbell would be required to
sign a release of all claims against the Company.
Senior
Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel
3M has also entered into an employment agreement with
Richard F. Ziegler providing for his employment as Senior Vice President, Legal
Affairs and General Counsel of the Company. The term of this agreement began on
January 1, 2003, and ended on January 1, 2006, subject to the
survival of certain specified provisions pertaining to restricted stock, stock
options, retiree medical benefits, vacation, gross up for excise taxes,
retirement, supplemental retirement benefits, and termination benefits. Since
January 1, 2006, Mr. Ziegler’s employment has been governed by the
same terms and conditions that apply to other similar executives of the Company
in addition to the surviving provisions of his employment agreement described
above. The agreement provided for an initial base salary of $600,000 per year
and for annual profit sharing initially designed to pay $400,000 per year,
depending on the Company’s performance. The agreement also recognized that
Mr. Ziegler would be entitled to participate in the same retirement and
welfare benefit programs that the Company provides to its other similarly
situated executives, and would be entitled to reimbursement of his reasonable
relocation expenses. For purposes of 3M’s postretirement medical program,
Mr. Ziegler was credited with an opening retiree medical credit balance as
if he had completed 13 years of service with the Company.
The agreement also required 3M to pay Mr. Ziegler
the following cash bonus and to grant him the following stock options,
restricted stock, and performance units under the Performance Unit Plan:
Cash Bonus — The agreement provided for a cash signing bonus in
the amount of $850,000, payable in equal installments on the 1st of
January in the years 2003 through 2005.
Stock Options — In May 2003, Mr. Ziegler was granted
options to purchase 46,000 shares of 3M common stock at $61.85 per share. All
46,000 options will become exercisable in full immediately upon termination of
Mr. Ziegler’s employment by reason of death or disability, termination
without cause, or termination for good reason, and in that event such options
shall remain exercisable for up to two years following Mr. Ziegler’s
death, the termination of his employment due to disability, termination without
cause, or termination for good reason. In addition, any portion of these 46,000
options that have already become exercisable may be exercised by
Mr. Ziegler within 90 days following his resignation from the Company
without good reason.
Restricted
Stock — The Company also granted Mr. Ziegler
12,000 shares of restricted stock. These shares vest in increments of one-third
on the 1st of January in the years 2006, 2008, and
2010, assuming he remains employed by the Company, although such vesting
accelerates in the event of termination of Mr. Ziegler’s employment by
reason of death or disability, termination without cause, termination for good
reason, or a change in control of the Company.
Performance
Units — The Company granted Mr. Ziegler 2,400
performance units for the performance period commencing January 1, 2003,
and ending December 31, 2005, subject to the terms of the Company’s
Performance Unit Plan. These units did vest and were paid out in cash to Mr. Ziegler
at the end of such three-year performance period.
The agreement also requires 3M to provide Mr. Ziegler
supplemental retirement benefits. If he remains employed by 3M for at least
nine years, the supplemental benefits will be payable in the form 
45 


of an annuity payable for his
lifetime commencing at age 62 and based on 45 percent of his highest average
annual compensation over a four-year period. If Mr. Ziegler is employed by
3M for less than nine years, the amount of these supplemental retirement
benefits will be prorated accordingly. The amount of such benefits will be
reduced by the amount of his benefits under 3M’s pension plans. Once he completed
two years of employment with 3M, the agreement provided that the sum of these
supplemental retirement benefits and the benefits payable under 3M’s pension
plans would not be less than $300,000 per year. These supplemental retirement
benefits (other than the $300,000 minimum benefit, which vested after two years
of employment with the Company) vest after five years of employment with the
Company, although they vest immediately in the event of the termination of his
employment by reason of death or disability, termination without cause, or
termination for good reason.
In the event that Mr. Ziegler’s
employment is terminated by the Company other than for cause, or if Mr. Ziegler
terminates his employment for a good reason, then he will receive a lump-sum
payment equal to (i) two times his annual base salary and profit sharing
if such termination occurs during the first three years following his
employment commencement date, or (ii) one times his annual base salary and
profit sharing if such termination occurs more than three but no more than ten
years following his employment commencement date. As a condition to receiving
such payment, Mr. Ziegler would be required to sign a release of all
claims against the Company.
Retirement Benefits
The Company maintains a
tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan for its eligible employees in the
United States. Effective January 1, 2001, the Company amended this plan (the
Employee Retirement Income Plan, or the “ERIP”) to include a pension equity
feature for (1) employees hired or rehired on or after January 1, 2001, and (2)
employees who voluntarily elected the pension equity feature during the
one-time choice election period in 2001. Of the Named Executive Officers, Mr. Wiens
and Dr. Nozari participate in the non-pension equity portion of the ERIP (the
Portfolio I Pension Plan), while Mr. McNerney (prior to his resignation), Mr. Buckley,
Mr. Ziegler, and Mr. Campbell participate in the pension equity portion of
the ERIP (the Portfolio II Pension Plan). Retirement benefits under the ERIP
are based on an employee’s years of service and average annual earnings during
the employee’s highest four consecutive years of service. Since the Internal
Revenue Code limits the amount of benefits that can be paid from the ERIP as well
as the amount of compensation upon which such benefits may be earned, the
Company also maintains several nonqualified pension plans for eligible
employees. The following table shows the estimated annual benefits payable on
retirement under both the ERIP and these nonqualified plans to the Company’s
eligible employees in the United States.




Average
  Annual Earnings
  During the Highest


 


Annual Portfolio I Retirement Benefits
  With Years of Service
  Indicated (2)


 




Four Consecutive
  Years of Service (1)


 


10
  Years


 


15
  Years


 


20
  Years


 


25
  Years


 


30
  Years


 


35
  Years


 


40
  Years


 







$


500,000


 


 


$


73,378


 


$


110,067


 


$


146,756


 


$


183,445


 


$


220,134


 


$


256,823


 


$


285,573


 




 


750,000


 


 


110,878


 


166,317


 


221,756


 


277,195


 


332,634


 


388,073


 


431,198


 







1,000,000


 


 


148,378


 


222,567


 


296,756


 


370,945


 


445,134


 


519,323


 


576,823


 




 


1,250,000


 


 


185,878


 


278,817


 


371,756


 


464,695


 


557,634


 


650,573


 


722,448


 







1,500,000


 


 


223,378


 


335,067


 


446,756


 


558,445


 


670,134


 


781,823


 


868,073


 




 


4,500,000


 


 


673,378


 


1,010,067


 


1,346,756


 


1,683,445


 


2,020,134


 


2,356,823


 


2,615,573


 







5,000,000


 


 


748,378


 


1,122,567


 


1,496,756


 


1,870,945


 


2,245,134


 


2,619,323


 


2,906,823


 




 


5,500,000


 


 


823,378


 


1,235,067


 


1,646,756


 


2,058,445


 


2,470,134


 


2,881,823


 


3,198,073


 
































 
46 


 




Average
  Annual Earnings
  During the Highest


 


Annual Portfolio II Retirement Benefits
  With Years of Service
  Indicated (2)


 




Four Consecutive
  Years of Service (1)


 


5
  Years


 


10
  Years


 


15
  Years


 


20
  Years


 







$


500,000


 


 


$


41,114


 


$


79,488


 


$


115,120


 


$


146,641


 




 


750,000


 


 


62,573


 


120,974


 


175,204


 


223,176


 







1,000,000


 


 


84,031


 


162,460


 


235,287


 


299,711


 




 


1,250,000


 


 


105,490


 


203,946


 


295,371


 


376,246


 







1,500,000


 


 


126,948


 


245,433


 


355,454


 


452,781


 




 


4,500,000


 


 


384,449


 


743,268


 


1,076,457


 


1,371,201


 







5,000,000


 


 


427,366


 


826,240


 


1,196,624


 


1,524,271


 




 


5,500,000


 


 


470,282


 


909,213


 


1,316,791


 


1,677,341


 























 
FOOTNOTES TO PENSION PLAN
TABLES
(1)  Earnings
include base salary and profit sharing actually earned by the participant and
does not include any other forms of remuneration. The benefits are computed on
the basis of straight-life annuity amounts and are not subject to any deduction
for social security or other offset amounts.
(2)  Under the Portfolio I plan,
a participant may retire with an unreduced pension at age 60 (61 or 62 for
employees born after 1942) and if the participant’s age and years of service
total at least 90 (91 or 92 for employees born after 1942) he or she would
receive a social security bridge to age 62. Under the Portfolio II plan, a
participant may retire anytime after age 55 with at least five years of service
and their pension is based on the total pension value determined at retirement
converted to an actuarially equivalent annuity. The Named Executive Officers
are presently entitled to the respective years of service credit set opposite
their names:




G.W. Buckley*


 


0




R.S. Morrison.


 


0




W.J. McNerney, Jr.*


 


4




H.J Wiens


 


38




R.F. Ziegler*


 


3




P.D. Campbell*


 


4




M. Nozari


 


33




 
*                    As
described above in the summaries of their employment agreements with the
Company (in the section entitled “Employment Contracts, Termination of
Employment, and Change-in-Control Arrangements”), Mr. Buckley, Mr. Ziegler,
and Mr. Campbell will be entitled to receive supplemental retirement
benefits from the Company in addition to the annual retirement benefits shown
in the Pension Plan Tables above and Mr. McNerney forfeited all of the
supplemental retirement benefits provided for under his employment agreement
(as well as all of the annual retirement benefits shown in the Pension Plan
Tables above) upon his resignation from the Company.
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT ON EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION
The Compensation Committee of
the Board of Directors (the “Committee”) reviews the Company’s compensation
practices and policies, annually reviews and approves (subject to ratification
by the independent directors of the Board) the compensation of the Chief
Executive Officer, annually reviews and approves the compensation for the other
senior executives, evaluates the performance of the Chief Executive Officer,
and annually prepares this report on executive 
47 


compensation
for inclusion in the proxy statement. The Committee’s membership is determined
by the Board of Directors, and is composed solely of independent nonemployee
directors.
Executive
Compensation Philosophy and Practices
The Board believes that
providing appropriate motivation of the Company’s executives and effective
leadership are essential for establishing 3M’s preeminence in the markets we
serve and creating an attractive investment for stockholders. The Committee is
responsible to the Board for ensuring that Company executives are highly
qualified and are compensated in a manner that aligns the interests of
executives and stockholders. Consistent with this philosophy, the following
core principles provide a framework for the Company’s executive compensation
programs:
·       Total
compensation must be competitive to attract the best talent to 3M; motivate
employees to perform at their highest levels; reward outstanding achievement;
and retain those individuals with the leadership abilities and skills necessary
for building long-term stockholder value;
·       A
significant portion (targeted at 65 percent to 89 percent) of an executive’s
total compensation is variable and at risk and tied to both the annual and
long-term financial performance of the Company, such as economic profit and
stock price appreciation; and
·       Stock
ownership is emphasized so that executives manage from an owner’s perspective.
The Committee believes that broad and deep employee stock ownership effectively
aligns the interests of employees with those of stockholders and strongly
motivates executives to build stockholder value. The Committee has established
specific stock ownership guidelines for key management employees and has
created programs that encourage employees to have an ownership interest in the
Company.
The Committee annually surveys the executive
compensation practices of large industrial companies that are likely
competitors for executive talent. The Committee’s objective of maintaining the
total compensation at a competitive level has resulted in short-term
compensation (base salary and profit sharing) being at or very close to the
median and long-term compensation (Performance Unit Plan and stock options) in
the 50th to 75th percentile, with more variability and risk
based on Company performance.
Executive compensation is
linked to Company performance compared to specific financial and nonfinancial
objectives. These objectives range from achieving earnings and sales growth
targets to upholding the Company’s Statement of Corporate Values (which include
customer satisfaction through superior quality and value, attractive investor
return, ethical business conduct, respect for the environment, and employee
pride in the Company).
Components
of Executive Compensation
The compensation program for
executive officers consists of the following components: base salary, profit
sharing, Performance Unit Plan, stock options, and (in appropriate
circumstances) restricted stock or restricted stock units. The Committee
determines the amount of compensation under each component of executive
compensation granted to the executive officers to achieve the appropriate ratio
between performance-based compensation and other forms of compensation, and to
reflect the level of responsibility of the executive officer.
Base Salary
The Committee establishes base
salaries annually in relation to base salaries paid by companies included in
the compensation surveys. Base salary for an executive officer is established
each year 
48 


based on (1) a
compensation range corresponding to the executive’s responsibilities and (2) the
executive’s overall individual job performance.
Profit Sharing
Profit sharing is variable compensation based on the
quarterly economic profit of the Company and its business units. Economic
profit is defined as quarterly net operating income minus a charge for
operating capital used by the business. The economic profit measurement is
directly related to the creation of stockholder value since it emphasizes the
effective use of capital and solid profitable growth. Compensation paid under
the profit sharing plan fluctuates based on Company performance.
The amount payable under this plan is based on the
number of shares of profit sharing assigned to a participant, multiplied by an
amount based on quarterly economic profit. The total amount paid under this
plan to the Company’s five most highly compensated executive officers never
exceeds one-half percent of the Company’s consolidated net income for any
period, and no single executive officer ever receives more than one-sixth
percent of the Company’s consolidated net income for any period. Profit sharing
payments to these individuals are subject to limitations when individual
amounts exceed specified relationships to planned compensation.
Currently, all profit sharing
payments are made in cash. However, the plan does permit the Committee to pay
all or a portion of the profit sharing payable to the Named Executive Officers
in shares of the Company’s common stock.
Performance Unit Plan
The Performance Unit Plan is variable compensation
based on the Company’s long-term performance. The amount payable with respect
to each performance unit granted is determined by and is contingent upon
attainment of the performance criteria selected each year by the Committee over
the applicable three-year performance period (each year weighted equally).
The performance criteria selected by the Committee for
performance units granted during 2005 were designed to focus management
attention on two key factors that create stockholder value: Economic Profit
Growth and Sales Growth.
Performance Criteria:
(1)   “Economic
Profit Growth” is the percentage amount by which the Economic Profit of the
Company for a year exceeds the Economic Profit of the Company for the
immediately preceding year; and
(2)   “Sales
Growth” is the percentage amount by which the Company’s worldwide organic sales
growth (sales growth adjusted for acquisitions, inflation and currency effects)
exceeds worldwide real sales growth as reflected in the Industrial Production
Index, as published by the Federal Reserve.
Performance Unit Plan
Payments:
The amount payable for each
performance unit granted in 2005 is linked to the performance criteria of
Economic Profit Growth and Sales Growth. The amount payable may be anywhere
from $0 to $360 per unit, depending on the performance of the Company during
the three-year performance period ending on December 31, 2007. Payment for
the units granted in 2005 will be made no later than March 15,  2008,
in the form (at the discretion of the Committee) of cash, stock, or a
combination of cash and stock.
49 


Stock
Options, Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
The objectives of the
Management Stock Ownership Program are to help the Company attract and retain
outstanding employees, and to promote the growth and success of the Company’s
business by aligning the financial interests of these employees with the other
stockholders of the Company. The Program authorizes the Committee to grant
stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation
rights, and other stock awards to employees of the Company. Currently, the
Committee makes annual grants of stock options under the Program to the
executive officers. These options have an exercise price equal to the market
price of the Company’s common stock on the grant date, and generally expire ten
years after the grant date. Stock options encourage executives to become owners
of the Company, which further aligns their interests with those of the
stockholders. These options only have value to the recipients if the price of
the Company’s stock appreciates after the options are granted. Currently, the
Committee has made grants of restricted stock and restricted stock units under
the Program only to selected executive officers and other employees in
appropriate circumstances. These circumstances have included the hiring of new
executive officers as well as the need to retain current executive officers.
These shares of restricted stock and restricted stock units vest over periods
ranging from one to ten years after the grant date, which encourage the
executives to remain employed by the Company until the shares or units have
vested.
Stock Ownership Guidelines
The Company’s stock ownership
guidelines are designed to increase an executive’s equity stake in 3M and more
closely align his or her interests with those of our stockholders. The
guidelines provide that the CEO should attain beneficial ownership of 3M stock
equal to five times his or her annual base salary, Executive and Senior Vice
Presidents should attain beneficial ownership of 3M stock equal to three times
their annual base salary, and Vice Presidents who are members of 3M’s Quarterly
Management Council should attain beneficial ownership of 3M stock equal to two
times their annual base salary. While the stock ownership guidelines provide
that executives attain this beneficial ownership of 3M stock within five years
of their appointment to these positions, most of our executives have already
attained or exceeded these ownership levels.
Chief
Executive Officer Compensation
Mr. McNerney’s employment agreement with the
Company expired when his resignation became effective on June 30, 2005.
Pursuant to this agreement and the provisions of the Company’s equity
compensation and long-term incentive compensation plans, Mr. McNerney
forfeited his outstanding stock options, shares of restricted common stock,
Performance Unit Plan awards, and supplemental retirement benefits that had not
vested by the effective date of his resignation. No severance or termination
benefits were paid to Mr. McNerney upon the termination of his employment.
On August 8, 2005, the Committee approved (and
the independent directors of the Board ratified, as necessary) a compensation
plan (the “Plan”) for Robert S. Morrison relating to his service as interim
Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) of the Company (the “Service”). Mr. Morrison,
a director of the Company since 2002, served as interim CEO from June 30,
2005 until the effective date of Mr. Buckley’s hiring on December 6,
2005. In determining Mr. Morrison’s compensation, the Board focused on
competitive levels of compensation for interim CEOs managing companies of
similar size and complexity in similar situations.
The terms of the Plan appear under “Employment
Contracts, Termination of Employment, and Change-In-Control Arrangements” of
this proxy statement.
On December 6,
2005, the Committee approved (and the independent directors of the Board
ratified, as necessary) both the terms of an employment agreement with George
W. Buckley and his 
50 


compensation
as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. The terms of this
agreement, of Mr. Buckley’s initial compensation, and of the initial
grants to Mr. Buckley under the Company’s equity compensation and
long-term incentive compensation plans are described under “Employment
Contracts, Termination of Employment, and Change-in-Control Arrangements” of
this proxy statement.
Mr. Buckley’s
compensation generally consists of the same short-term and long-term components
(base salary, profit sharing, Performance Unit Plan awards, and stock options)
as those of the other Named Executive Officers. In addition, Mr. Buckley
was granted restricted stock units and will receive a cash bonus designed to
replace compensation that was forfeited when he left his previous employer to
join the Company. During the process of negotiating Mr. Buckley’s
employment agreement and designing his compensation arrangements, the Committee
was represented by independent legal counsel and advised by an independent
compensation consultant retained by the Committee.
Limit on
Tax Deductible Compensation
Section 162(m) of
the Internal Revenue Code prohibits the Company from deducting compensation
paid in any year to certain executives in excess of $1 million but does not
subject performance-based compensation to this limit. The Committee continues
to emphasize performance-based compensation for executives and thus minimize
the effect of Section 162(m). However, the Committee believes that its
primary responsibility is to provide a compensation program that attracts,
retains, and rewards the executive talent necessary for the Company’s success.
Consequently, in any year the Committee may authorize nonperformance-based
compensation in excess of $1 million. The Committee recognizes that the loss of
the tax deduction may be unavoidable under these circumstances.
Conclusion
The Committee is satisfied that the short-term and
long-term compensation paid to the executive officers of the Company is aligned
with the Company’s strategic objectives and ensures that payouts are determined
by Company and employee performance.
Submitted by the Compensation Committee
Edward A. Brennan, Chair
Rozanne L. Ridgway
Kevin W. Sharer
Louis W. Sullivan
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER
PARTICIPATION
The members of the Compensation Committee are named in
the preceding section. With the exception of Mr. Morrison, who resigned
from the Committee upon his appointment as interim Chief Executive Officer, no
members of the Compensation Committee were officers or employees of 3M or any
of its subsidiaries during the year, were formerly 3M officers, or had any
relationship otherwise requiring disclosure.
51




AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
The role of the Audit
Committee includes assisting the Board of Directors in its oversight of the
Company’s financial reporting process. In performing this oversight function,
the Audit Committee has:
·       Reviewed
and discussed the audited consolidated financial statements with management,
which has primary responsibility for the financial statements;
·       Discussed
with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), the Company’s independent registered
public accounting firm, the matters required to be discussed by Statements on
Auditing Standards No. 61, Communication with Audit Committees, as
currently in effect;
·       Received
the written disclosures and the letter from PwC required by Independence
Standards Board Standard No.1, Independence Discussions with Audit Committees,
as currently in effect, and discussed the independence of PwC with them; and
·       Reviewed
the services provided by PwC, other than their audit services, and concluded
that the PwC’s provision of such other services is compatible with PwC’s
independence.
Based upon the review and discussions described above,
the Committee recommended to the Board of Directors that the audited
consolidated financial statements be included in the Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, for filing with
the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Submitted by the Audit Committee
Edward M. Liddy, Chair
Linda G. Alvarado
Vance D. Coffman
Michael L. Eskew
Aulana L. Peters
Audit
Committee Policy on Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of
the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
The Audit Committee is responsible for appointing and
overseeing the work of the independent registered public accounting firm (“Independent
Accounting Firm”). The Audit Committee has established the following procedures
for the pre-approval of all audit and permissible non-audit services provided
by the Independent Accounting Firm.
Before engagement of the Independent Accounting Firm for the
next year’s audit, the Independent Accounting
Firm will submit a detailed description of services it expects to render
to the Company during that year for each of the following categories of
services to the Audit Committee for approval:
1.    Audit
services include audit work performed in the preparation of consolidated
financial statements, as well as work that generally only the Independent
Accounting Firm can reasonably be expected to provide, including comfort
letters, statutory audits, and attest services and consultation regarding
financial accounting and/or reporting standards.
2.    Audit
related services are for assurance and related services that are traditionally
performed by the Independent Accounting Firm, including due diligence related
to mergers and acquisitions, employee benefit plan audits, and special
procedures required to meet certain regulatory requirements.
52 


3.    Tax
services include all services performed by the Independent Accounting Firm’s
tax personnel except those services specifically related to the audit of the
financial statements, and includes fees in the areas of tax compliance, tax
planning, and tax advice.
4.    Other
services are those services not captured in the other categories.
Before engagement, the Audit Committee pre-approves
these services by category of service. The fees are budgeted and the Audit
Committee requires the Independent
Accounting Firm to report actual fees versus the budget periodically
throughout the year by category of service. During the year, circumstances may
arise when it may become necessary to engage the Independent Accounting Firm for additional services not
contemplated in the original pre-approval. In those instances, the Audit
Committee requires specific pre-approval before engaging the Independent Accounting Firm.
The Audit Committee has delegated
pre-approval authority to the chair of the committee. The chair must report,
for informational purposes only, any pre-approval decisions to the Audit
Committee at its next scheduled meeting.
FEES OF THE INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM
The following table presents
fees for professional services rendered by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the
audit of the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31,
2005, and December 31, 2004, and fees billed for other services rendered
by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP during those periods.
Audit and Non-Audit Fees ($ in millions)




 


 


2004


 


2005


 




Audit Fees: (1)


 


$


11.2


 


10.9


 




Audit Related Fees: (2)


 


0.6


 


0.6


 




Tax Fees: (3)


 


1.4


 


1.3


 




All Other Fees:


 


0.0


 


0.0


 




Total


 


$


13.2


 


12.8


 




 
(1)   Audit
fees consisted of audit work and review services, as well as work generally
only the Independent Accounting Firm can reasonably be expected to provide,
such as statutory audits, comfort letters, consents, and assistance with and
review of documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Audit
Fees for 2005 also included the audit of management’s report on the
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, as
required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 404).
(2)   Audit
related fees consisted principally of audits of employee benefit plans and
other attest services.
(3)   Tax fees consist principally of tax planning
and compliance.
53 


3M STOCK PERFORMANCE GRAPH
The following graph compares the five-year cumulative total stockholder
return for 3M common stock (assuming reinvestment of dividends) against the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average
(DJIA), both of which are well-known and published industry indices. The
Company is included in both the S&P 500 Stock Index and the Dow Jones
Industrial group of 30 companies. The Company, as a highly diversified
manufacturer and seller of a broad line of products, is not easily categorized
with other, more specific, industry indices.
The annual changes for the
five-year period shown in the graph are based on the assumption that $100 had
been invested in 3M stock and each index on December 31, 2000, as required
by SEC rules, and that all quarterly dividends were reinvested at the average
of the closing stock prices at the beginning and end of the quarter. The total
cumulative dollar returns shown on the graph represent the value that such
investments would have had on December 31, 2005.
Comparison
of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return Among
3M, Dow Jones
Industrial Average, and S&P 500 Index
3M Stock Performance
(With Dividend Reinvestment)





Cumulative Return


 


2000


 


2001


 


2002


 


2003


 


2004


 


2005


 




3M


 


100.0


 


100.2


 


106.6


 


149.9


 


147.2


 


142.1


 




DJIA


 


100.0


 


94.6


 


80.4


 


103.1


 


108.6


 


110.4


 




S&P 500


 


100.0


 


88.1


 


68.7


 


88.4


 


98.0


 


102.8


 




 
54 


REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBMISSION OF STOCKHOLDER PROPOSALS
FOR NEXT YEAR’S ANNUAL MEETING
In order for a stockholder proposal to be considered for inclusion in
3M’s proxy statement for next year’s Annual Meeting, our Corporate Secretary
must receive the proposal no later than 5 p.m. Central Time on November 27,
2006. Such proposals must be sent via registered, certified, or express mail
(or other means that allows the stockholder to determine when the proposal was
received by the Corporate Secretary) to: Gregg M. Larson, Associate General
Counsel and Secretary, 3M Company, 3M Center, Building 0220-13-W-39,
St. Paul, MN 55144-1000. Such proposals must contain the information
required under 3M’s Bylaws, and also must comply with the SEC’s regulations
regarding the inclusion of stockholder proposals in Company sponsored proxy
materials, such as the stockholder continuing to own a minimum number of shares
until the Annual Meeting and appearing in person or through an authorized
representative at the meeting to present the proposal.
Alternatively, stockholders intending to present a
proposal at next year’s Annual Meeting without having it included in the
Company’s proxy statement must comply with the requirements set forth in the
Company’s Bylaws. Our Bylaws require, among other things, that our Corporate
Secretary receive written notice from the record stockholder no earlier than January 9,
2007, and no later than February 8, 2007. The notice must contain the
information required by the Bylaws, a copy of which is available upon request
to our Corporate Secretary.
Proposals received by the Corporate Secretary after
the dates mentioned will not be included in the proxy statement or acted upon
at the Annual Meeting.
By Order of the Board of
Directors.

GREGG M. LARSON
Associate General Counsel and Secretary
55




APPENDIX A
3M CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GUIDELINES
(As amended February 23, 2006)
The Board of Directors (the “Board”) of 3M Company (“3M”
or the “Company”) has adopted these guidelines, which in conjunction with the
Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and Board Committee charters, form the
framework for governance of the Company.
A.   THE ROLES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND
MANAGEMENT
         1.       The Board of Directors
— The business of the Company is conducted under the oversight of the Board of
Directors. The Board selects the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and
delegates to the CEO the authority and responsibility to manage the Company’s
operations. The Board of Directors serves as elected representatives of the
shareholders, acts as an advisor and counselor to the CEO and senior
management, and oversees management performance on behalf of shareholders. The
Board also oversees the Company’s strategic and business planning process and
reviews and assesses management’s approach to addressing significant risks
facing the Company.
         2.       Management — The
CEO and senior management are responsible for running the Company’s business
operations.
B.   BOARD COMPOSITION AND LEADERSHIP
         1.  Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
— The Board has the authority to decide whether the positions of Chairman and
CEO should be held by the same person and shall determine the best arrangement
for the Company and its shareholders in light of all relevant and changing
circumstances. The Board currently believes that the same individual should
hold the position of Chairman and CEO (Chairman/CEO).
         2.       Size of the Board
— The number of directors should not exceed a number that can function
efficiently. The Nominating and Governance Committee considers and makes
recommendations to the Board concerning the appropriate size and needs of the
Board.
         3.       Board Independence — The
Board believes in having a substantial majority of independent directors on the
3M Board. A director is “independent” if the Board affirmatively determines
that the Director has no material relationship with the Company directly or as
a partner, shareholder or officer of an organization that has a relationship
with the Company and otherwise meets the requirements for independence of the
listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. The independent directors
will make the Board decisions on corporate governance matters.
         4.       Board Membership Criteria
— The Nominating and Governance Committee periodically reviews with the Board
the appropriate skills and characteristics required of Board members given the
current Board composition. It is the intent of the Board that the Board,
itself, will be a high performance organization creating competitive advantage
for the Company. To perform as such, the Board will be comprised of individuals
who have distinguished records of leadership and success in their arena of
activity and who will make substantial contributions to Board operations and
effectively represent the interests of all stockholders. The Board’s assessment
of Board candidates includes, but is not limited to, consideration of: (i) roles
and contributions valuable to the business community, (ii) personal
qualities of leadership, character, judgment and whether the candidate
possesses and maintains throughout service on the Board a reputation in the
community at large of integrity, trust, respect, competence and adherence to
the highest ethical standards, (iii) relevant knowledge and diversity of
background and experience in such things as business, manufacturing,
technology, finance and accounting, marketing, international business, 
A-1 


government and the like; or (iv) whether
the candidate is free of conflicts and has the time required for preparation,
participation and attendance at all meetings. A director’s qualifications in
light of these criteria is considered at least each time the director is re-nominated
for Board membership.
         5.       Selection of New Director
Candidates — The Nominating and Governance Committee considers
qualified director candidates from several sources, including stockholders, and
evaluates candidates against the current board membership criteria described
above. In addition to these minimum requirements, the Committee will also
evaluate whether the candidate’s skills are complementary to the existing Board
members’ skills, the Board’s needs for particular expertise in fields such as
business, manufacturing, technology, financial, marketing, international,
governmental, or other areas of expertise, and assess the candidate’s impact on
Board dynamics and effectiveness. The Committee selects candidates that best
suit the Board’s current needs and recommends one or more of such individuals
to the Board. Exacting membership criteria and a rigorous selection process
help ensure that candidates recommended to the Board will effectively represent
the balanced best interests of all stockholders.
         6.  Voting for Directors — Any nominee for director in an uncontested election
(i.e., an election where the only nominees are those recommended by the Board)
who receives a greater number of votes “withheld” from his or her election than
votes “for” such election (a “Majority Withheld Vote”) will promptly tender his
or her resignation for consideration by the Nominating and Governance
Committee.
a.               The Nominating and
Governance Committee will promptly consider the best interests of 3M and its
stockholders and recommend to a committee of independent directors of the Board
whether to accept the tendered resignation or to take some other action, such
as rejecting the resignation and addressing the apparent underlying causes of
the withheld votes.
b.               The Board will
create a committee of all the independent directors who did not receive a
Majority Withheld Vote to consider the Nominating and Governance Committee’s
recommendation and take action within 90 days following the uncontested
election. Thereafter, the committee of independent directors will promptly
disclose its decision and an explanation of how the decision was reached in a
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
c.               Except as provided
below, a director receiving a Majority Withheld Vote shall remain active and
engaged in Board activities during this Nominating and Governance Committee and
Board process.
d.              If one or more
members of the Nominating and Governance Committee receive a Majority Withheld
Vote, then the Board will create a committee of independent directors who did
not receive a Majority Withheld Vote to consider the resignation offers of all
directors receiving a Majority Withheld Vote and determine whether to accept
the tendered resignation(s) or to take some other action and promptly
disclose their decision as described in paragraph 6b above.
e.               Any director who
receives a Majority Withheld Vote and tenders his or her resignation pursuant
to this provision will not participate in the committee action regarding
whether to accept the tendered resignation offer or take some other action.
However, if the only directors who did not receive a Majority Withheld Vote in
the same election constitute three or fewer independent directors, then all
independent directors may participate in the committee action regarding whether
to accept the resignation offer(s) or to take some other action.
A-2 


f.                   This corporate
governance guideline will be summarized in each proxy statement relating to an
election of directors of 3M.
         7.       Director Orientation and
Continuing Education — The Company provides directors with an
orientation and education program to familiarize them with the Company’s
business operations and plans, industry trends and corporate governance
practices, as well as ongoing education on issues facing the Company and on
subjects that would assist the directors in discharging their duties.
         8.       Directors Who Experience
Change in Present Job Responsibilities or Other Relevant Circumstances
— When a director’s principal occupation or business affiliation changes, or
other circumstances arise which may raise questions about the director’s
continuing qualifications in relation to the Board Membership Criteria set
forth above, then the director will tender her/his resignation, or the
Nominating and Governance Committee will ask for such tender. The Nominating
and Governance Committee will consider the tendered resignation and recommend
to the Board the action to be taken.
         9.       Service On Other
For-Profit Boards — Independent directors are encouraged to evaluate
carefully the time required to serve on other boards (excluding non-profit)
taking into account board attendance, preparation, participation and
effectiveness on these boards. Independent directors must advise the Chairman/CEO
before accepting an invitation to serve on another board to enable the Company
to determine whether (i) any regulatory issues or potential conflicts are
raised by the director accepting such an
invitation and (ii) the director will have the time required for
preparation, participation and attendance at 3M Board meetings. Independent
directors who also serve as CEOs of publicly traded companies should not serve
on more than two boards of public companies in addition to the 3M Board, and other
independent directors should not serve on more than five other boards of public
companies in addition to the 3M Board.
  10.       Retirement Policy — Each
non-employee director must tender her/his resignation at the annual meeting
following her or his 72nd birthday. If circumstances dictate, the
Nominating and Governance Committee may ask a director to continue to serve on
the Board past age 72.
  11.       Board Compensation Review
— The Nominating and Governance Committee will periodically receive reports on
the status of Board compensation in relation to other large U.S. companies and
is responsible for recommending to the Board changes in compensation for
non-employee directors.
  12.       Board’s Interaction with
Stakeholders — The Chairman/CEO is responsible for establishing
effective communications with the Company’s stakeholders, including
shareholders, customers, employees, communities, suppliers, creditors,
governments and corporate partners. It is the policy of the Board that
management speaks for the Company. This policy does not preclude independent
directors from meeting with stakeholders, but management where appropriate
should be present at such meetings.
C.   BOARD OPERATIONS
1.                Selection of Agenda Items
for Board Meetings — At the first Board meeting of each year, the
Chairman/CEO will propose for the Board’s approval agenda items to be discussed
during the course of the year. Before each meeting, the Chairman/CEO will
review proposed agenda items that fall within the scope of responsibilities of
a Board committee with the chair of that committee and distribute the agenda in
advance to the Board. Any Board member may ask to include items on the agenda.
         2.       Board Materials
Distributed in Advance — Board members receive materials related to
agenda items sufficiently in advance of Board meetings so that the directors
may prepare to discuss the 
A-3 


items at the meeting.
Sensitive subjects may be discussed at the meeting without distributing written
materials in advance or at the meeting.
         3.       Director Responsibilities
— Directors must exercise their business judgment to act in the best interests
of the shareholders and the Company. In discharging this obligation, directors
reasonably may rely on the Company’s senior executives and its advisors and
auditors. Directors are expected to attend the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
and attend and participate in all meetings of the Board and of committees on
which they serve and to spend the time needed and prepare for and meet as
frequently as necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
         4.       Board Presentations and
Access to Employees — Members of senior management may be invited to
attend part or all of a Board meeting in order to participate in discussions.
Generally, the executive responsible for an area of the Company’s operations
the Board is to consider makes the presentation. Board members have complete
access to all other members of management and Company employees.
         5.       Board Access to
Independent Advisors — The Board and its committees may seek advice
from outside advisors as appropriate. The Board shall have sole authority to
approve related fees and retention terms.
         6.       Presiding Director at
Executive Sessions — Independent directors regularly meet without
the Chairman/CEO and may select a director to chair the meeting. The chairs of
the Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Governance, and Public Issues
Committees of the Board each preside as the 
chair at executive sessions of the independent directors at which the
principal items to be considered are within the scope of the committee chair’s
authority. The Board believes that this practice ensures leadership at all
executive sessions of the independent directors.
D.   BOARD COMMITTEES
1.                Committees — The
current committees are Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Governance, and
Public Issues.
         2.       Assignment and Term of
Service of Committee Members — The Board is responsible for the
appointment of committee members and chairs, based on recommendations of the
Nominating and Governance Committee.
         3.       Agenda, Frequency, Length
and Reports of Committee Meetings — The chair of each committee
approves the agenda, length of and attendance at each committee meeting and
determines the frequency of meetings. Materials related to agenda items are
given to the committee members sufficiently in advance to allow the members to
prepare for discussing the items at the meeting. The committee chairs report a
summary of their meeting to the Board following each regular committee meeting.
         4.       Membership — All
Board members may serve on the Public Issues Committee, but only independent
Directors may serve on the Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Governance
Committees.
         5.       Responsibilities — The
Board periodically reviews the responsibilities of each committee and approves
the committee charters, copies of which are attached to these guidelines.
E.   BOARD AND MANAGEMENT EVALUATION
1.                Formal Evaluation of the
Chairman/CEO — The Compensation Committee, in consultation with the
Chairman/CEO, sets annual and long-term performance goals for the Chairman/CEO.
The Chair of the Compensation Committee leads the discussion of the
Chairman/CEO’s performance against such goals with the independent directors
and communicates the Board’s evaluation to 
A-4 


the Chairman/CEO. The
Compensation Committee will use the evaluation when determining the
compensation of the Chairman/CEO.
         2.       Board Self-Assessment
— The Board will conduct an annual self-evaluation to determine whether it and
its committees are functioning effectively. The Nominating and Governance
Committee will receive comments from all directors and share those comments
with the Board. Based on the comments and further discussion, the Board will
make an assessment specifically reviewing areas in which the Board and/or the
management believe improvements could be made to increase the effectiveness of
the Board and its committees.
         3.       Succession Planning
— The Board plans the succession to the position of Chairman/CEO and certain
other senior management positions. To assist the Board, the Chairman/CEO
annually assesses senior managers and their succession potential. The
Chairman/CEO also provides the Board with an assessment of persons considered
potential successors to certain senior management positions.
         4.       Management
Development — The Chairman/CEO annually should report to the Board
on the Company’s program for management development.
A-5 


Policy on Adoption of a Rights Plan
In 2002 and 2003, a 3M stockholder submitted a shareholder proposal to
3M regarding the approval process for adopting a stockholders’ rights plan
(also known as a “poison pill”). 3M does not have a rights plan and is not
currently considering adopting one. The Board continues to believe, however,
that there may be circumstances under which adoption of a rights plan would be
necessary to give the Board the negotiating power and leverage to obtain the
best result for 3M stockholders in the context of a takeover effort.
Following consideration of the favorable vote the stockholder proposal
received and in light of this belief, the Board has adopted and reaffirmed a
statement of policy on this topic. The Board’s policy is that it will only
adopt a rights plan if either (1) stockholders have approved adoption of
the rights plan or (2) the Board in its exercise of its fiduciary
responsibilities, including a majority of the independent members of the Board,
makes a determination that, under the circumstances existing at the time, it is
in the best interests of 3M’s stockholders to adopt a rights plan without the
delay in adoption that would come from the time reasonably anticipated to seek
stockholder approval.
The Board has directed the Nominating and Governance Committee to
review this policy statement on an annual basis and to report to the Board on
any recommendations it may have concerning the policy. The terms of the policy,
as in effect, will be included in 3M’s published Corporate Governance
Guidelines and its proxy statement.
A-6




APPENDIX B
3M Company Board of
Directors
Audit Committee Charter
(As
Affirmed February13, 2006)
A.               Purpose: The purpose of the Audit Committee (the “Committee”)
of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of 3M Company (the “Company”) is to
assist the Board in its oversight of (i) the integrity of the Company’s
financial statements, (ii) the Company’s compliance with legal and
regulatory requirements, (iii) the qualifications and independence of the
Company’s independent registered public accounting firm (the “Independent Accounting Firm”), and (iv) performance
of the Company’s internal auditing department (“Internal Audit”) and the Independent Accounting Firm.
B.              Membership:
The Committee’s membership is determined by the Board upon recommendation of
the Nominating and Governance Committee and consists of at least three
directors. The members of the Committee shall meet the independence and
experience requirements of the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange
and the requirements for audit committee service set forth in the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Act”), and the rules and
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). At least one
member of the Committee shall be an “audit committee financial expert” as
determined by the Board in compliance with criteria established by the SEC.
Committee members shall not serve on the audit committees of more than two
other public companies unless the Board determines that such service does not
impair the member’s ability to serve effectively on the Committee.
C.              Roles and
Responsibilities: The Committee’s responsibility is one of
oversight. The management of the Company is responsible for the preparation of
complete and accurate annual and quarterly consolidated financial statements (“financial
statements”) in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States and for maintaining appropriate accounting and financial
reporting principles and policies and internal controls designed to assure
compliance with accounting standards and laws and regulations. The Independent Accounting Firm is
responsible for planning and conducting in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board an audit of the Company’s annual
consolidated financial statements and a review of the Company’s quarterly
financial statements. The Committee shall have the authority to take any and
all acts that it deems necessary to carry out its oversight function, including
but not limited to:
1.               Financial Reporting and Disclosure
a.                Review and discuss
the annual audited financial statements and quarterly financial statements with
management and the Independent Accounting Firm, including the disclosures under
the caption “Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.” The Committee shall make a recommendation to the Board
as to whether the audited financial statements should be included in the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K.
b.               Review the Company’s
financial reporting processes, disclosure and internal controls and procedures,
and the process for the CEO and CFO quarterly certifications required by the
SEC with respect to financial statements and the Company’s disclosure and
internal controls and procedures. Such review shall include a consideration of
major issues regarding accounting principles and financial statement
presentations, including any significant changes in the Company’s selection or
application of accounting principles, and any reports by the CEO and CFO regarding
major issues as to the adequacy of the Company’s disclosure and internal
controls and procedures and any special audit steps adopted in light of
identified deficiencies.
B-1 


c.                Review and discuss
with management (including the senior internal audit executive) and the
Independent Accounting Firm the Company’s internal controls report and the
Independent Accounting Firm’s attestation of the report prior to filing of the
Company’s Form 10-K.
d.               Obtain and
periodically review a report from the Independent Accounting Firm, describing (i) all
critical accounting policies and practices to be used in the financial
statements, (ii) all alternative treatments of financial information
within generally accepted accounting principles that have been discussed with
management, ramifications of the use of such alternative disclosures and
treatments, and the treatment preferred by the Independent Accounting Firm, and
(iii) other material written communications between the Independent
Accounting Firm and management, such as any management letter or schedule of
unadjusted differences. Review any reports on such topics or similar topics
prepared by management, including any significant financial reporting issues
and judgments made in connection with the preparation of the financial
statements. Discuss with the Independent Accounting Firm any material issues
raised in such reports.
e.                Discuss earnings
press releases, as well as financial information and earnings guidance provided
to analysts and rating agencies, provided that such discussions may be done
generally (i.e., by discussing the types of information to be disclosed and the
type of presentation to be made). The management will review with the chair of
the Committee earnings press releases prior to issuance.
f.                    Discuss with management
and the Independent Accounting Firm the effect of regulatory and accounting
initiatives, as well as off-balance sheet structures, if any, on the Company’s
financial statements.
2.               Internal Audit
a.                Review the
charter, annual plan and scope of work of Internal Audit, including its
responsibilities and staffing.
b.               Review, as
appropriate, the results of internal audits and discuss related significant
internal control matters with the Company’s internal auditor and Company
management.
c.                Discuss the
adequacy of the Company’s internal controls with Internal Audit.
d.               Review the
appointment and periodically evaluate the performance of the senior internal
auditing executive, who shall have direct access to the Committee.
3.               Independent Accounting Firm
a.                Responsible for
the appointment, retention, termination, compensation and oversight of the
Independent Accounting Firm. The Committee shall also be responsible for the
resolution of disagreements between management and the Independent Accounting
Firm. The Independent Accounting Firm shall report directly to the Committee.
b.               Review the scope of
the annual audit and services to be provided by the Independent Accounting Firm
during the year. Pre-approve all auditing services, internal control-related
services and permitted non-audit services to be provided to the Company by the
Independent Accounting Firm, subject to any exceptions provided by the Act. The
chair of the Committee may pre-approve any such services according to the
procedures approved by the Committee, provided that any approval by the chair
must be presented to the Committee at its next meeting.
B-2 


c.                Obtain and review,
at least annually, a report from the Independent Accounting Firm describing: (i) the
Independent Accounting Firm’s internal quality-control procedures; (ii) any
material issues raised by the most recent internal quality-control review, or
peer review, of the Independent Accounting Firm, or by any inquiry or
investigation by governmental or professional authorities, within the preceding
five years, respecting one or more independent audits carried out by the
Independent Accounting Firm, and any steps taken to deal with any such issues;
and (iii) all relationships between the Independent Accounting Firm and
the Company, including the matters set forth in Independence Standards Board
Standard No. 1. Discuss with the Independent Accounting Firm any issues or
relationships disclosed in such report that, in the judgment of the Committee,
may have an impact on the competence or independence of the Independent
Accounting Firm.
d.               Discuss with the
Independent Accounting Firm the matters required to be discussed pursuant to
the Statement on Auditing Standards No. 61, Communication with Audit
Committees, as currently in effect, including any audit problems or
difficulties encountered in performing the audit and management’s response, and
disagreements with management.
e.                Obtain assurance
from the Independent Accounting Firm that the audit was conducted in a manner
consistent with Section 10A(b) of the Act.
f.                    Review and
periodically evaluate the performance of the lead audit partner of the
Independent Accounting Firm and assure the regular rotation of the lead audit
partner and the audit partner responsible for reviewing the audit as required
by law.
g.               Establish policies
for the Company’s hiring of employees or former employees of the Independent
Accounting Firm who participated in any capacity in the audit of the Company.
4.               Risk Management and Compliance
a.                Discuss policies
and procedures with respect to risk assessment and risk management, the Company’s
major risk exposures, and the steps management has taken to monitor and
mitigate such exposures.
b.               Review the
effectiveness of the system for monitoring compliance with laws, regulations
and the Company’s business conduct policies, and the results of management’s
investigation and follow-up on any fraudulent acts or accounting
irregularities.
c.                Periodically
obtain reports from management regarding compliance.
d.               Review with the
Company’s General Counsel legal matters that may have a material impact on the
consolidated financial statements and any material reports or inquiries
received from regulators or governmental agencies regarding compliance.
e.                Establish
procedures for (i) the receipt, retention, and treatment of complaints
received by the Company regarding accounting, internal accounting controls, or
auditing matters; and (ii) the confidential, anonymous submission by
Company employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing
matters. Review periodically with management and Internal Audit these
procedures and any significant complaints received.
5.               Meetings, Reports, Charter Review, Performance Evaluation and Outside
Advisors
a.                The Committee
shall meet with such frequency and at such intervals as it shall determine is
necessary to carry out its duties and responsibilities, but in any case, not 
B-3 


less than four times a year.
The Committee shall meet separately, periodically, with management, with
internal auditors and with the Independent Accounting Firms. A majority of the
members shall constitute a quorum. A majority of the members present shall
decide any matter brought before the Committee.
b.               Report regularly to
the Board.
c.                Prepare the report
of the Committee required to be included in the Company’s annual proxy
statement.
d.               Review the adequacy
of this Charter at least annually and recommend any proposed changes to the
Board for approval.
e.                Conduct an annual
performance evaluation of the Committee.
f.                    The Committee
shall have the authority to retain such outside legal, accounting or other
advisors, as the Committee may deem appropriate in its sole discretion. The
Committee shall have sole authority to approve related fees and retention
terms.
B-4




APPENDIX C
3M Company Board of
Directors
Compensation Committee Charter
(As
Amended February 13, 2006)
A.               Purpose: The Compensation
Committee (the “Committee”) of the Board of Directors of 3M Company
reviews the Company’s compensation practices and policies, annually reviews and
approves (subject to ratification by the independent directors of the Board)
the compensation for the CEO, annually reviews and approves the compensation
for the other senior executives, evaluates CEO performance, and annually prepares
a report on executive compensation for inclusion in the Company’s proxy
statement.
B.              Membership:
The Committee’s membership is determined by the Board and consists of at least
three directors. All members of the Committee shall meet the independence requirements
of the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange and qualify as “Nonemployee
Director” for purposes of Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended.
C.              Roles and
Responsibilities: The responsibilities of the Committee include:
1.               Compensation Practices and Policies
a.                Review
compensation practices and policies of the Company to ensure they provide
appropriate motivation for corporate performance and increased shareholder
value.
b.               Oversee
the administration of the Company’s stock and deferred compensation programs,
and determine the employees who receive awards and the size of those awards
under the Company’s Management Stock Ownership Program.
c.                Make
recommendations to the Board of Directors regarding the adoption, amendment or
termination of equity compensation programs that require shareholder approval.
d.               Approve
the adoption, amendment and termination of incentive compensation and deferred
compensation programs for employees of the Company.
e.                Oversee
the administration of the Company’s deferred compensation plans and programs
for its nonemployee directors, and either approve or recommend for the approval
of the Board of Directors amendments to such plans and programs.
2.               Executive Compensation
a.                Periodically survey
the executive compensation practices of other large companies.
b.               Annually review and
approve, for the senior executives of the Company (other than the CEO), (i) the
annual base salary, (ii) profit sharing, (iii) awards under the
Company’s Performance Unit Plan, and (iv) stock option grants and other
stock awards under the Company’s Management Stock Ownership Program.
c.                Approve for the
senior executives of the Company (other than the CEO) employment agreements,
severance arrangements, change-in-control arrangements and any special or
supplemental benefits.
d.               Establish and
certify the satisfaction of performance goals for performance-based
compensation as required under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue
Code.
e.                Review shareholder
proposals relating to executive compensation matters and recommend to the Board
the Company’s response to such proposals.
C-1 


3.               CEO Compensation
a.                Review and approve
annual corporate goals and objectives for the CEO.
b.               The Chairman of the
Committee leads the discussion of the CEO’s performance against such goals and
objectives with the independent directors and communicates the Board’s
evaluation to the CEO.
c.                Annually review
and approve (based on this evaluation), subject to ratification by the
independent directors of the Board, (i) the CEO’s annual base salary, (ii) the
CEO’s annual planned profit sharing, (iii) awards to the CEO under the
Company’s Performance Unit Plan, and (iv) stock option grants and other
stock awards to the CEO under the Company’s Management Stock Ownership Program.
In determining the long-term incentive component of CEO compensation, the
Committee will consider the Company’s performance and relative shareholder
return, the value of similar incentive awards to CEOs at other large companies,
and the awards given to the CEO in past years.
d.               Approve, subject to
ratification by the independent directors of the Board, for the CEO employment
agreements, severance arrangements, change-in-control arrangements and any
special or supplemental benefits.
4.               Meetings, Reports, Charter Review, Performance Evaluation and Outside
Advisors
a.                Hold regular
meetings of the Committee, reporting significant matters arising from such
meetings to the Board. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. A
majority of the members present shall decide any matter brought before the
Committee.
b.               Prepare a report on
executive compensation required by the rules of the Securities and
Exchange Commission for inclusion in the Company’s annual proxy statement.
c.                Review and reassess
the adequacy of this Charter at least annually and submit any changes to the
Board for approval.
d.               Conduct an annual
performance evaluation of the Committee.
e.                The Committee
shall have the authority to retain such compensation consultants, outside counsel
and other advisors as the Committee may deem appropriate in its sole
discretion. The Committee shall have sole authority to approve related fees and
retention terms.
C-2




APPENDIX D
3M Company Board of Directors
Nominating and Governance Committee Charter
(As
Affirmed February 13, 2006)
A.               Purpose:   The Nominating and Governance Committee
(the “Committee”) of the Board of Directors of 3M Company establishes Board
membership criteria, assists the Board by identifying individuals qualified to
become Board members, recommends to the Board matters of corporate governance,
facilitates the annual review of the performance of the Board and its
committees, and periodically reviews CEO and management succession plans.
B.              Membership:   The Committee’s
membership is determined by the Board and consists of at least three directors.
The members of the Committee shall meet the independence requirements of the
New York Stock Exchange.
C.              Roles and Responsibilities:   The
responsibilities of the Committee include:
1.   Board and Committee Membership
a.                Periodically
review with the Board the appropriate size of the Board and the requisite
skills and characteristics of its members as set forth below.
b.               It
is the intent of the Board that the Board, itself, will be a high performance
organization creating competitive advantage for the Company. To perform as
such, the Board will be comprised of individuals who have distinguished records
of leadership and success in their arena of activity and who will make
substantial contributions to Board operations and effectively represent the
interests of all stockholders.
c.                The
Board’s assessment of Board candidates includes, but is not limited to,
consideration of: (i) roles and contributions valuable to the business
community; (ii) personal qualities of leadership, character, judgment, and
whether the candidate possesses and maintains throughout service on the Board a
reputation in the community at large of integrity, trust, respect, competence
and adherence to the highest ethical standards; (iii) relevant knowledge
and diversity of background and experience in such things as business,
manufacturing, technology, finance and accounting, marketing, international
business, government and the like; or (iv) whether the candidate is free
of conflicts and has the time required for preparation, participation and
attendance at all meetings. A director’s qualifications in light of these
criteria is considered at least each time the director is re-nominated for
Board membership.
d.               Review
the resignation of directors whose principal occupation or business association
changes, or other circumstances arise which may raise questions about the
director’s continuing qualifications in relation to the Board membership
criteria referred to above and recommend to the Board what action the Board
should take with respect to the resignation.
e.                Review
the Board’s committee structure and recommend to the Board the appointment of
committee members and chairs.
2.   Selection of Qualified Director Candidates
a.                Identify
individuals that the Committee believes are qualified to become Board members
in accordance with the Board Membership Criteria set forth above, and recommend
that the Board select such nominee or nominees to stand for election at the
next meeting of stockholders of the Company in which directors will be elected.
D-1 


b.               In
the event there is a vacancy on the Board, identify individuals that the
Committee believes are qualified to become Board members in accordance with the
Board Membership Criteria set forth above, and recommend such person or persons
for appointment to the Board.
c.                Review
and evaluate all stockholder nominees for director (submitted in accordance
with the Company’s Bylaws) in accordance with the Board Membership Criteria set
forth above.
d.               The
Nominating and Governance Committee considers qualified director candidates
from several sources, including stockholders, and evaluates candidates against
the current board membership criteria described above. In addition to these
minimum requirements, the Committee will also evaluate whether the candidate’s
skills are complementary to the existing Board members’ skills, the Board’s
needs for particular expertise in fields such as business, manufacturing,
technology, financial, marketing, international, governmental, or other areas
of expertise, and assess the candidate’s impact on Board dynamics and
effectiveness. The Committee selects candidates that best suit the Board’s
current needs and recommends one or more of such individuals to the Board.
Exacting membership criteria and a rigorous selection process help ensure that
candidates recommended to the Board will effectively represent the balanced
best interests of all stockholders.
3.   Corporate Governance
a.                Review
the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines at least annually, and recommend
any proposed changes to the Board for approval.
b.               Develop
and recommend to the Board standards to be applied in making determinations on
the types of relationships that constitute material relationships between the
Company and a director for purposes of determining director independence.
c.                Review
and recommend to the Board proposed changes to the Company’s Certificate of
Incorporation and Bylaws.
d.               Review
shareholder proposals relating to corporate governance matters and recommend to
the Board the Company’s response to such proposals.
4.   Board and Committee Self-Assessment. Develop and recommend
to the Board for its approval an annual self-assessment process of the Board
and its committees and oversee the process. Based on this process, the Board
will make an assessment reviewing areas in which the Board and/or Management
believe improvements could be made to increase the effectiveness of the Board.
5.   Succession Planning. Review periodically with the
Chairman/CEO his assessment of corporate officers and succession plans relating
to their positions, and to make recommendations to the Board with respect to
the selection of individuals to occupy these positions.
6.   Miscellaneous Matters
a.                Periodically
review and recommend to the Board changes in Board compensation.
b.               Establish
and periodically review and recommend to the Board director retirement
policies.
D-2 


7.   Meetings, Reports, Charter Review, Performance Evaluation and Outside
Advisors
a.                Hold
regular meetings of the Committee, reporting significant matters arising from
such meetings to the Board. A majority of the members shall constitute a
quorum. A majority of the members present shall decide any matter brought
before the Committee.
b.               Review
and reassess the adequacy of this Charter at least annually and submit any
changes to the Board for approval.
c.                Conduct
an annual performance evaluation of the Committee.
d.               The
Committee shall have the authority to retain search firms to assist in identifying
director candidates, and to retain outside counsel and any other advisors as
the Committee may deem appropriate in its sole discretion. The Committee shall
have sole authority to approve related fees and retention terms.
D-3




APPENDIX E
3M Company Board of Directors
Public Issues Committee Charter
(As
Amended February 13, 2006)
A.               Purpose: The Public
Issues Committee (the “Committee”)
of the Board of Directors of 3M Company reviews public policy issues and trends
affecting the Company, reviews and advises with respect to the Company’s
policies and practices relating to environmental, health and safety programs
and reviews compliance with those programs; reviews and advises on human
resources issues relating to the Company’s policies and practices with respect
to diversity issues and equal employment opportunities; oversees the corporate
contribution program and the activities of the 3M Foundation, and reviews and
approves the Company’s response to shareholder proposals relating to public
policy issues.
B.              Membership:
The Committee’s membership is determined by the Board and consists of at least
three directors.
C.              Roles and
Responsibilities: The Committee:
1.               Reviews public
policy issues and trends affecting the Company.
2.               Reviews, advises
and offers insights and makes recommendations regarding policies, programs,
actions and procedures which will assist the Company to respond appropriately
to its social responsibilities and the public interest in its business affairs,
including activities such as those related to the environment, human resources,
labor, and community relations.
3.               Reviews and advises
with respect to the Company’s environmental, health and safety programs and
compliance; human resource programs and compliance; the corporate contribution
program; and the 3M Foundation.
4.               Review shareholder
proposals relating to public policy issues and recommend to the Board the
Company’s response to such proposals.
D.              Meetings,
Reports, Charter Review, Performance Evaluation and Outside Advisors:
The Committee shall:
1.               Hold regular
meetings of the Committee, reporting significant matters arising from such
meetings to the Board. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. A
majority of the members present shall decide any matter brought before the
Committee.
2.               Review and reassess
the adequacy of this Charter at least annually and submit any changes to the
Board for approval.
3.               Conduct an annual
performance evaluation of the Committee.
4.               Have the authority
to retain such outside counsel and any other advisors as the Committee may deem
appropriate in its sole discretion. The Committee shall have sole authority to
approve related fees and retention terms.
E-1




APPENDIX F
Certificate of Amendment of the
Certificate of Incorporation of
3M Company
3M COMPANY, a
corporation duly organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of
the State of Delaware (the “Corporation”), does hereby certify that:
1.                The Certificate of
Incorporation of the Corporation is hereby amended by deleting Article TENTH
thereof and inserting the following in lieu thereof:
TENTH: A. The number of
directors of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by or pursuant to
the Bylaws of the Corporation. At the 1986 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of
the Corporation, the directors shall be divided, with respect to the terms for
which they severally hold office, into three classes, as nearly equal in number
of directors as possible, as determined by the Board of Directors, with the
term of office of the first class to expire at the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held in 1987, the term of office of the second class to
expire at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held in 1988, and the term
of office of the third class to expire at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to
be held in 1989, with each class of directors to hold office until their
successors are duly elected and have qualified. At each Annual Meeting of
Stockholders following such initial classification and election until the 2007
Annual Meeting of Stockholders, directors elected to succeed those directors
whose terms expire at such annual meeting, other than those directors elected
under particular circumstances by a separate class vote of the holders of any
class or series of stock having a preference over the common stock, of a par
value of $0.01 per share, of the Corporation (the “Common Stock”) as to
dividends or upon liquidation of the Corporation, shall be elected to hold
office for a term expiring at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in the third
year following the year of their election and until their successors are duly
elected and have qualified. When the number of directors is changed, any newly
created directorships or any decrease in directorships shall be so apportioned
among the classes as to make all classes as nearly equal in number of directors
as possible, as determined by the Board of Directors. The terms of office of
all directors who are in office immediately prior to the closing of the polls
for the election of directors at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the
Corporation shall expire at such time. At each Annual Meeting of Stockholders
beginning with the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Corporation, the
directors shall not be classified, and the directors shall be elected annually
and shall hold office for a term expiring at the next Annual Meeting of
Stockholders and until their respective successors shall have been duly elected
and qualified. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of
Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director. The provisions of
this Paragraph are subject to the provisions of Paragraph D of this Article.
B.    Except as
may be provided in the terms of any class or series of stock having a
preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation of the
Corporation relating to the rights of the holders of such class or series to
elect, by separate class vote, additional directors, prior to the 2007 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders of the Corporation, no member of the Board of Directors
may be removed from office except for cause. Except as may be provided in the
terms of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock
as to dividends or upon liquidation of the Corporation relating to the rights
of the holders of such class or series to elect, by separate class vote,
additional directors, from and after the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of
the Corporation, any member of the Board of Directors may be removed from
office with or without cause.
C.    Subject to
the provisions of Paragraph D of this Article TENTH, newly created
directorships resulting from an increase in the number of directors of the Corporation
and 
F-1 


vacancies occurring in the
Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, removal, or
any other reason shall be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the
directors, although less than a quorum, then remaining in office and elected by
the holders of the capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally
in the election of directors or, in the event that there is only one such
director, by such sole remaining director. Prior to the 2007 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders of the Corporation, any director elected in accordance with the
preceding sentence shall hold office for the full term of the class of
directors in which the new directorship was created or the vacancy occurred and
until such director’s successor shall have been elected and qualified.
D.    In the
event that the holders of any class or series of stock of the Corporation
having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation
of the Corporation are entitled, by a separate class vote, to elect directors
pursuant to the terms of such class or series, then the provisions of such
class or series with respect to such rights of election shall apply to the
election of such directors. The number of directors that may be elected by the
holders of any such class or series of stock shall be in addition to the number
fixed by or pursuant to the Bylaws. Except as otherwise expressly provided in
the terms of such class or series, the number of directors that may be so
elected by the holders of any such class or series of stock shall be elected
for terms expiring at the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders and without
regard to any classification of the remaining members of the Board of
Directors, and vacancies among directors so elected by the separate class vote
of any such class or series of stock shall be filled by the affirmative vote of
a majority of the remaining directors elected by such class or series, or, if
there are no such remaining directors, by the holders of such class or series in
the same manner in which such class or series initially elected a director.
If at any meeting for
the election of directors, more than one class of stock, voting separately as
classes, shall be entitled to elect one or more directors and there shall be a
quorum of only one such class of stock, that class of stock shall be entitled
to elect its quota of directors notwithstanding absence of a quorum of the
other class or classes of stock.
2.                The foregoing
amendment was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Sections 242 of
the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, 3M COMPANY has caused this Certificate to be executed by Gregg M.
Larson, its Associate General Counsel and Secretary, on this     th
day of May 2006.






3M COMPANY


 




 


By:


 


 




 


 


Name:


Gregg M.
  Larson


 




 


 


Office:


Associate General Counsel and Secretary


 



 
F-2











Attendance Card


 


 


Attendance Card


 


 


 




 



Annual Meeting
  of Stockholders


 


 



Annual
  Meeting
  of Stockholders


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


May 9,
  2006
  RiverCentre
  175 West Kellogg Blvd.
  St. Paul, Minnesota


 


 


May 9, 2006
  RiverCentre
  175 West Kellogg Blvd.
  St. Paul, Minnesota


 


 


 




 


This is your ticket to the 2006 Annual Meeting. Please
  show it upon arrival. Annual Meeting activities begin at 8:30 a.m. with
  product demonstrations and displays. The meeting starts at 10:00 a.m.
  After the meeting, lunch will be served and the 3M store will open.
The meeting will be held in
  the Roy Wilkins Auditorium. Hosts and hostesses will show you the way after
  you enter the RiverCentre.
Since
  parking space is limited, you are urged to consider carpooling or public
  transportation.


 


 


This is your ticket to the 2006 Annual Meeting.
  Please show it upon arrival. Annual Meeting activities begin at
  8:30 a.m. with product demonstrations and displays. The meeting starts
  at 10:00 a.m. After the meeting, lunch will be served and the 3M store
  will open.
The
  meeting will be held in the Roy Wilkins Auditorium. Hosts and hostesses will
  show you the way after you enter the RiverCentre.
Since
  parking space is limited, you are urged to consider carpooling or public
  transportation.


 





Recycled
  Paper
  40% Pre-consumer paper
  10% Post-consumer paper




 




3M Company
ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS
Tuesday, May 9, 2006
3M Center
St. Paul, Minnesota 55144
Receive Future Proxy Materials Electronically
 
Help us make a difference by
eliminating paper proxy mailings to your home or business. With your consent,
we will send all future proxy voting materials to you by e-mail, along with a
link to 3M’s proxy voting site. To register for
electronic delivery of future proxy materials, go to www.econsent.com/mmm and
follow the prompts.
 
 
 
 
 



 


3M
  Company


 







3M
  Center


 




 


St.
  Paul, Minnesota 55144 


proxy



 
The Board
of Directors solicits this proxy for use at the Annual Meeting on Tuesday, May
9, 2006.
The
stockholder(s) whose signature(s) appear(s) on the reverse side of this proxy
card hereby appoint(s) George W. Buckley, Edward A. Brennan, and Rozanne L.
Ridgway or any of them, each with full power of substitution, as proxies, to
vote all shares of common stock in 3M Company which the stockholder(s) would be
entitled to vote on all matters which may properly come before the 2006 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders and any adjournments thereof. THE PROXIES SHALL VOTE
SUBJECT TO THE DIRECTION INDICATED ON THE REVERSE SIDE OF THIS CARD. THE
PROXIES ARE AUTHORIZED TO VOTE IN THEIR DISCRETION UPON OTHER BUSINESS AS MAY
PROPERLY COME BEFORE THE MEETING AND ANY ADJOURNMENTS OR POSTPONEMENTS THEREOF.
THE PROXIES WILL VOTE AS THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS WHERE A CHOICE IS
NOT SPECIFIED.
FOR
PARTICIPANTS IN 3M’S VOLUNTARY INVESTMENT PLAN AND EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP
PLAN (VIP), AND THE 3M SAVINGS PLAN:
In accordance
with the terms of the VIP and Savings Plan, shares allocated to my respective
accounts in these plans on the record date will be voted by the trustee, State
Street Bank and Trust Company, in accordance with the instructions indicated on
the reverse side of this card, and in accordance with the judgment of the
trustee upon other business as may properly come before the meeting and any
adjournments or postponements thereof. In addition, participants in the VIP may
instruct State Street (as VIP trustee) how to vote a proportionate number of
both the 3M shares held by the VIP that have not been allocated to accounts of
participants and the allocated shares for which no instructions are received.
If no instructions are provided or if this card is not received on or before
May 4, 2006, shares held in my account for the Savings Plan will be voted
by the trustee as directed by any one of the named proxies designated above. If
no instructions are provided or if this card is not received on or before May 4,
2006, shares held in my account for the VIP will be voted by the trustee in the
same proportion that the other participants in the VIP direct the trustee to
vote shares in their VIP accounts.
 
(Continued, and must be signed and dated on
the other side)








VOTING
  INSTRUCTIONS:


 




THERE
  ARE THREE WAYS TO VOTE YOUR PROXY


COMPANY #
 
 



VOTE BY INTERNET — www.eproxy.com/mmm/ — Quick *** Easy *** Immediate
•    Use the Internet to vote your proxy 24 hours
a day, 7 days a week, until 12:00 p.m. (CT) on May 8, 2006.
•    Please have your proxy card and the last
four digits of your Social Security Number or Tax Identification Number
available. Follow the simple instructions to obtain your records and create an
electronic ballot.
VOTE BY TELEPHONE — 1-800-560-1965 — Quick *** Easy *** Immediate
•    Use any touch-tone telephone to vote your
proxy 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, until 12:00 p.m. (CT) on May 8, 2006.
•    Please have your proxy card and the last
four digits of your Social Security Number or Tax Identification Number
available. Follow the simple instructions the voice provides you.
VOTE BY MAIL
Mark, sign,
and date your proxy card and return it in the postage-paid envelope provided so
that it is received by May 8, 2006 (by May 4, 2006, for participants in 3M’s
Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan and the 3M Savings
Plan).
Your Internet or telephone vote authorizes the named proxies to vote
your shares in the same manner as if you marked, signed, and returned your
proxy card. The deadline for Internet or telephone voting is 12:00 p.m.
(Central Time) on May 8, 2006 (by May 4, 2006, for
participants in 3M’s Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership
Plan and the 3M Savings Plan).
If you
vote your shares on the Internet or by telephone, you do not need to mail back
the proxy card. YOUR VOTE IS IMPORTANT. THANK YOU FOR VOTING.



 The Board of Directors Recommends a Vote
  “FOR” all Nominees:




 




 1.


Election of directors —
Nominees to 2009 Class:


 


01 Linda G. Alvarado
  02 Edward M. Liddy


 


03 Robert S. Morrison
04  Aulana L.
  Peters


o


Vote FOR all nominees
  (except as noted below)


o


Vote WITHHELD from all nominees




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 To withhold
  authority to vote for any nominee, write the number(s) of the nominee(s) in the box provided
  to the right.


 


 




 


 




— Please fold here —




 




 The Board of Directors Recommends a Vote
  “FOR” Items 2 and 3:


 


 




 


 


 




 2.


Ratification of the appointment of
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 3M’s Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm


 


o 
  For           o 
  Against


 


o 
  Abstain




 3.


Proposal to amend the Certificate of Incorporation to
  authorize the annual election of directors


 


o 
  For           o 
  Against


 


o 
  Abstain




 


 


 


 


 


 




 The Board of Directors Recommends a Vote
  “AGAINST” Items 4, 5, and 6:


 


 




 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 4.


Stockholder proposal regarding executive compensation


 


o 
  For           o 
  Against


 


o 
  Abstain




 


 


 


 


 


 




 5.


Stockholder proposal regarding 3M’s animal welfare
  policy 


 


o 
  For           o 
  Against


 


o 
  Abstain




 


 


 


 


 


 




 6.


Stockholder proposal regarding 3M’s business
  operations in China


 


o 
  For           o 
  Against


 


o 
  Abstain




 


 


 


 


 


 




 In their
  discretion, to vote upon other matters properly coming before the meeting.


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 




 THIS
  PROXY, WHEN PROPERLY EXECUTED, WILL BE VOTED AS DIRECTED. IF NO DIRECTION IS
  GIVEN, IT WILL BE VOTED “FOR”  all
  nominees and “FOR” ITEMS 2 and 3 and “AGAINST” ITEMS 4, 5, and 6.




 


 


 


Date  ______________________________




 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 
 


 




 


 


 


 


 




 


 


Signature(s) in Box
  Please sign exactly as your name(s) appears on Proxy. If held in joint
  tenancy, all persons should sign. Trustees, adminis­trators, etc., should
  include title and authority. Corporations should provide full name of
  corporation and title of authorized officer signing the proxy.
 
















 





