
DEF 14A
1
a2196987zdef14a.htm
DEF 14A













Table of Contents 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549  
 SCHEDULE 14A  
Proxy Statement Pursuant to Section 14(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 













 
 Filed by the Registrant ý


 
Filed by a Party other than the Registrant o


 

Check the appropriate box:


 
 o
 
Preliminary Proxy Statement


 
 o
 
 Confidential, for Use of the Commission Only (as permitted by Rule 14a-6(e)(2))


 
 ý
 
Definitive Proxy Statement


 
 o
 
Definitive Additional Materials


 
 o
 
Soliciting Material Pursuant to §240.14a-12



















 3M Company




  (Name of Registrant as Specified In Its Charter)


 N/A




  (Name of Person(s) Filing Proxy Statement, if other than the Registrant)


 
 
 
 
 


Payment of Filing Fee (Check the appropriate box):


 ý
 
No fee required.


 o
 
Fee computed on table below per Exchange Act Rules 14a-6(i)(1) and 0-11.



 
 
(1)
 
Title of each class of securities to which transaction applies:
         


 
 
(2)
 
Aggregate number of securities to which transaction applies:
         


 
 
(3)
 
Per unit price or other underlying value of transaction computed pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0-11 (set forth the amount on which the filing fee is calculated and state how it was determined):
         


 
 
(4)
 
Proposed maximum aggregate value of transaction:
         


 
 
(5)
 
Total fee paid:
         


 o
 
Fee paid previously with preliminary materials.


 o
 
Check box if any part of the fee is offset as provided by Exchange Act Rule 0-11(a)(2) and identify the filing for which the offsetting fee was paid previously. Identify the previous filing by registration
statement number, or the Form or Schedule and the date of its filing.



 
 
(1)
 
Amount Previously Paid:
         


 
 
(2)
 
Form, Schedule or Registration Statement No.:
         


 
 
(3)
 
Filing Party:
         


 
 
(4)
 
Date Filed: 
         



 
 

 
 
 Persons who are to respond to the collection of information contained in this form are not required to respond unless the form displays a currently valid OMB control number. 



















Table of Contents 
George W. Buckley Chairman of the Board, President and
Chief Executive Officer 















 
March 24, 2010




Dear
Stockholder: 
        I
am pleased to invite you to attend 3M's Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will be held on Tuesday, May 11, 2010, at 10 a.m., Central Daylight Time at the RiverCentre,
175 West Kellogg Boulevard, St. Paul, Minnesota. 
        Details
regarding admission to the meeting and the business to be conducted are more fully described in the accompanying Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement. I will report on
Company operations and discuss our plans for growth. There will also be time for your questions and comments. 
        The
fine attendance of our stockholders at Annual Meetings over the years has been very helpful in maintaining good communication. I sincerely hope you will be able to join us.  Your attendance cards to the Annual Meeting are
located on the back cover of this proxy statement.
        Your
vote is important. Whether or not you plan to attend the Annual Meeting, please vote as soon as possible. You may vote on the Internet, by telephone, or, if this proxy statement was
mailed to you, by completing and mailing the enclosed traditional proxy card. Please review the instructions on the proxy card or the electronic proxy material delivery notice regarding each of these
voting options. 
        Thank
you for your ongoing support of 3M. 
Sincerely,








 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  2010 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS         NOTICE OF 2010 ANNUAL MEETING AND PROXY STATEMENT         TABLE OF CONTENTS     

 














 Notice of 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
 
iii


 Proxy Statement
 
1


 
 Purpose of the Annual Meeting
 
1


 
 Annual Meeting Admission
 
1


 
 Information About the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy
Materials
 
1


 
 Stockholders Entitled to Vote
 
2


 
 Proposals You Are Asked to Vote On and the Board's Voting
Recommendations
 
3


 
 Voting Requirements to Elect Directors and Approve Each of the Proposals
Described in this Proxy Statement
 
3


 
 Voting Methods
 
5


 
 Changing Your Vote
 
5


 
 Counting the Vote
 
5


 
 Confidentiality
 
6


 
 Results of the Vote
 
6


 
 Delivery of Documents to Stockholders Sharing an Address
 
6


 
 List of Stockholders
 
6


 
 Cost of Proxy Solicitation
 
7


 
 Transfer Agent
 
7


 Governance of the Company
 
8


 
 Corporate Governance Guidelines
 
8


 
 Executive Sessions
 
8


 
 Board's Leadership Structure
 
8


 
 Lead Independent Director
 
9


 
 Communication with Directors
 
9


 
 Director Independence
 
9


 
 Director Nomination Process
 
10


 
 Board's Role in Risk Oversight
 
12


 
 3M Business Conduct Policies
 
13


 
 Related Person Transaction Policy and Procedures
 
14


 
 Policy on Adoption of a Rights Plan
 
14


 Board and Committee Membership
 
15


 
 Audit Committee
 
16


 
 Compensation Committee
 
16


 
 Finance Committee
 
17


 
 Nominating and Governance Committee
 
18


 Director Compensation and Stock Ownership
Guidelines
 
19





i



 
Table of Contents














 Proposals To Be Voted On
 
21


 
 Proposal No. 1 — Election of the Ten Directors Identified in this Proxy Statement
 
21


 
 Proposal No. 2 — Ratification of the Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm
 
26


 
 Proposal No. 3 — Approval of the Amended 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan and Approval of the Expanded
Performance Criteria Available Under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan
 
26


 
 Proposal No. 4 — Stockholder Proposal on Special Meetings
 
36


 Information on Stock Ownership of Directors and Executive
Officers
 
39


 Security Ownership of More Than 5 Percent Stockholders
 
40


 Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance
 
40


 Executive Compensation
 
41


 
 Compensation Discussion and Analysis
 
41


 
 Compensation Committee Report
 
53


 
 Assessment of Risk Related to Compensation Programs
 
54


 
 Summary Compensation Table
 
55


 
 All Other Compensation Table
 
56


 
 2009 Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table
 
57


 
 Additional Information Regarding the Employment Agreements of the Named
Executive Officers
 
59


 
 2009 Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End Table
 
62


 
 2009 Option Exercises and Stock Vested Table
 
63


 
 Pension Benefits
 
64


 
 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation
 
66


 
 Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control. 
 
67


 
 Generally Available Compensation and Benefit Plans
 
69


 Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation
 
72


 Audit Committee Report
 
72


 Audit Committee Policy on Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
72


 Fees of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
73


 Requirements for Submission of Stockholder Proposals for Next Year's Annual
Meeting
 
74


 Appendix A — Amended 3M 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan
 
A-1





ii




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
3M COMPANY   3M Center, St. Paul, Minnesota 55144   
NOTICE OF 2010 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS  














TIME AND DATE
 
10:00 a.m., Central Daylight Time on Tuesday, May 11, 2010


 PLACE
 
RiverCentre
175 West Kellogg Boulevard
St. Paul, Minnesota 55102


 ITEMS OF BUSINESS
 
(1)
 
To elect the ten directors identified in this Proxy Statement, each for a term of one year.


 
 
(2)
 
To ratify the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 3M's independent registered public accounting firm.


 
 
(3)
 
To approve the amended 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan and to approve the expanded performance criteria available under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan


 
 
(4)
 
To consider one stockholder proposal, if properly presented at the meeting. See the Table of Contents for a description of the stockholder proposal.


 
 
(5)
 
To transact such other business as may properly come before the Annual Meeting and any adjournment or postponement.


 ADJOURNMENTS AND POSTPONEMENTS
 
Any action on the items of business described above may be considered at the Annual Meeting at the time and on the date specified above or at any time and date to which the Annual Meeting may be properly adjourned or
postponed.


 ANNUAL REPORT
 
Our 2009 Annual Report, which is not part of the proxy soliciting materials, is enclosed if the proxy materials were mailed to you. The Annual Report is accessible on the Internet by visiting www.proxyvote.com, if you
have received the electronic proxy material delivery notice or already consented to the electronic delivery.


 RECORD DATE
 
You are entitled to vote if you were a stockholder of record at the close of business on Friday, March 12, 2010.


 MEETING ADMISSION
 
Either an admission ticket or proof of ownership of 3M stock, as well as a form of personal identification, must be presented in order to be admitted to the Annual Meeting. If you are a stockholder of record, your
admission ticket is included on the back cover of this proxy statement. If your shares are held in the name of a bank, broker, or other holder of record, you must bring a brokerage statement or other proof of ownership with you to the Meeting, or you
may request an admission ticket in advance. Please refer to the section entitled "Annual Meeting Admission" on page 1 for further details.


 VOTING
 
For instructions on voting, please refer to the instructions on the E-Proxy Notice you received in the mail or, if you requested or received a hard copy of the Proxy Statement, on your enclosed proxy card.
















 
 
By Order of the Board of Directors,



 
 





 
 
 GREGG M. LARSON
Deputy General Counsel and Secretary




IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING THE AVAILABILITY OF PROXY MATERIALS FOR THE ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS TO BE HELD ON MAY 11, 2010: The Notice of Annual Meeting, Proxy Statement
and the 2009 Annual Report are available at www.proxyvote.com. Enter the 12-digit control number located on the E-Proxy Notice or proxy card to view these
materials.
THIS
PROXY STATEMENT AND PROXY CARD ARE BEING DISTRIBUTED ON OR ABOUT MARCH 24, 2010. 
iii




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  PROXY STATEMENT     
        The Board of Directors (the "Board") of 3M Company, a Delaware corporation ("3M" or the "Company") is soliciting proxies for the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders. You are receiving a proxy statement because you own shares of 3M common stock that entitle you to vote at the meeting. By use of a proxy, you can vote whether or not you
attend the meeting. The proxy statement describes the matters we would like you to vote on and provides information on those matters so you can make an informed decision. 
        The
information included in this proxy statement relates to proposals to be voted on at the meeting (if properly presented), the voting process, 3M's Board and Board committees, the
compensation of directors and certain executive officers, and other required information. 
 
 
  Purpose of the Annual Meeting     
        The purpose of the Annual Meeting is to elect directors and to conduct the business described in the Notice of Annual Meeting. 
 
 
  Annual Meeting Admission     
        Only stockholders are invited to attend the meeting. An admission ticket or proof of ownership of 3M stock, along with personal
identification, must be presented in order to be admitted to the Annual Meeting. If you are a stockholder of record, your admission ticket is on the back of this proxy statement. If your shares are
held in the name of a bank, broker, or other holder of record, you must bring a brokerage statement or other proof of ownership with you to the Annual Meeting, or obtain an admission ticket in
advance. Tickets are also available on the Internet voting site — www.proxyvote.com. If you do not provide photo identification
or comply with the other procedures outlined above, you will not be admitted to the Annual Meeting. 
        No cameras (including cell phone cameras), recording equipment, electronic devices, large bags, briefcases, or packages will be permitted in the Annual
Meeting.
 
 
  Information About the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials     


•Why did I receive the notice in the mail regarding Internet availability of the proxy materials
instead of a paper copy of the proxy materials?



This
year, we are pleased to be again taking advantage of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rule that allows companies to furnish their proxy materials over the Internet. As a result, we are
mailing to many of our stockholders a notice about the Internet availability of the proxy materials ("E-Proxy Notice") instead of a paper copy of the proxy materials. All stockholders
receiving the E-Proxy Notice will have the ability to access the proxy materials over the Internet or request to receive a paper copy of the proxy materials by mail free of charge.
Instructions on how to access the on-line proxy materials or to request a paper copy may be found in the notice. In addition, the notice contains instructions on how you may request to
access proxy materials in printed form by mail or electronically on an ongoing basis.  


•Why didn't I receive the E-Proxy Notice in the mail?

We
are providing some of our stockholders, including stockholders who have previously requested to receive paper copies of the proxy materials, with paper copies of the proxy materials instead of the
E-Proxy Notice. 
In
addition, we are providing E-Proxy Notice by E-mail to those stockholders who have previously elected delivery of the proxy materials electronically. Those stockholders
should have received an E-mail containing a link to the Web site where those materials are available and a link to the proxy voting Web site. 


1



 
Table of Contents


•How can I access the proxy materials over the Internet?



The
E-Proxy Notice, proxy card, or voting instruction card will contain instructions on how to: 

View
our proxy materials for the Annual Meeting on the Internet; and 
Instruct
us to send our future proxy materials to you electronically by E-mail. 

Our
proxy materials are also available at www.proxyvote.com 
The
E-Proxy Notice, proxy card, or voting instruction card will contain instructions on how you may request to access proxy materials electronically on an ongoing basis. Choosing to access
your future proxy materials electronically will help us conserve natural resources and reduce the costs of printing and distributing our proxy materials. If you choose to access future proxy materials
electronically, you will receive an E-mail with instructions containing a link to the Web site where those materials are available and a link to the proxy voting Web site. Your election to
access proxy materials by E-mail will remain in effect until you terminate it.  


•How can I obtain a paper copy of the proxy materials?



Stockholders
receiving the E-Proxy Notice by mail or E-mail will find instructions about how to obtain a paper copy of the proxy materials on the notice. All stockholders who
do not receive a notice or an E-mail will receive a paper copy of the proxy materials by mail. 


 
 
  Stockholders Entitled to Vote     
        Each share of our common stock outstanding as of the close of business on March 12, 2010, the record date, is entitled to one
vote at the Annual Meeting on each matter properly brought before the meeting. As of that date, there were approximately 711,924,240 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. 
        Most
3M stockholders hold their shares through a stockbroker, bank, trustee, or other nominee rather than directly in their own name. As summarized below, there are some distinctions
between shares held of record and those owned beneficially: 


•STOCKHOLDER OF RECORD — If your shares are registered directly in your name with 3M's Transfer Agent,
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., you are considered the stockholder of record of those shares and the E-Proxy Notice, or if you requested, these proxy materials are being sent directly to you by
3M. As the stockholder of record, you have the right to grant your voting proxy directly to 3M or to vote in person at the meeting. You may also vote on the Internet or by telephone, as described in
the E-Proxy Notice and below under the heading "Voting Methods."   
•BENEFICIAL OWNER — If your shares are held in a stock brokerage account, by a bank, trustee, or other
nominee, you are considered the beneficial owner of shares held in street name and these proxy materials are being forwarded to you by your broker, trustee, or nominee who is considered the
stockholder of record of those shares. As the beneficial owner, you have the right to direct your broker, trustee, or nominee on how to vote and are also invited to attend the meeting. However, since
you are not the stockholder of record, you may not vote these shares in person at the meeting. Your broker, trustee, or nominee is obligated to provide you with a voting instruction card for you to
use. You may also vote on the Internet or by telephone, as described in the E-Proxy Notice and below under the heading "Voting Methods."   
•If your shares are held in your account in the 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M
Savings Plan, you are considered the beneficial owner of these shares and the trustee of the plans is the stockholder of record. Participants in 3M's Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock
Ownership Plan or the 3M Savings Plan may direct the trustee how to vote the shares allocated to their account by following the voting instructions contained on the 

2



 
Table of Contents


proxy
card. Participants in 3M's Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan may also direct the trustee how to vote a proportionate number of allocated shares of common stock for
which it has not received direction by following the same voting instructions. If you fail to direct the trustee how to vote your shares by following these voting instructions, the trustee will vote
your shares as described in the voting instructions. You may also vote on the Internet or by telephone, as described in the E-Proxy Notice and below under the heading "Voting Methods." 


 
 
  Proposals You Are Asked to Vote On and the Board's Voting Recommendations     
        The following proposals are scheduled to be voted on at the meeting. 3M's Board recommends that you vote your shares as indicated
below. 














 


 
 
Proposals:
 
The Board's
Voting Recommendations:


 


1.
 
The election of the ten directors identified in this Proxy Statement.
 
"FOR"
each nominee
to the Board


 


2.
 
The ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 3M's independent registered public accounting firm.
 
"FOR"


 


3.
 
Approval of the amended 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan and approval of the expanded performance criteria available under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan
 
"FOR"


 


4.
 
Stockholder proposal on special meetings.
 
"AGAINST"


 




        Other
than the proposals described in this proxy statement, the Board is not aware of any other matters to be presented for a vote at the Annual Meeting. If you grant a
proxy by telephone, Internet, or by signing and returning your proxy card, any of the persons appointed by the Board of Directors as proxy holders — George W. Buckley, Patrick D.
Campbell, and Gregg M. Larson — will have the discretion to vote your shares on any additional matters properly presented for a vote at the meeting. If any of our nominees is
unavailable as a candidate for director, the above-named proxy holders will vote your proxy for another candidate or candidates as may be nominated by the Board of Directors. 
 
 
  Voting Requirements to Elect Directors and Approve Each of the Proposals Described in this Proxy Statement     
        Quorum — The presence of the holders of a majority of the
outstanding shares of common stock entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, is necessary to constitute a quorum. Abstentions and "broker
non-votes" are counted as present and entitled to vote for purposes of determining a quorum. A "broker non-vote" occurs when a bank, broker, or other holder of record holding
shares for a beneficial owner does not vote on a particular proposal because that holder does not have discretionary voting power for that particular item and has not received instructions from the
beneficial owner. 
        Broker Vote — Previously, under New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) Rule 452, brokers were permitted to vote their
clients' shares in "routine" matters (such as uncontested director elections and ratification of auditors) so long as the beneficial owner of those shares had not provided voting instructions to the
broker at least ten days before a stockholder meeting. The SEC approved amendments to NYSE Rule 452, effective January 1, 2010, to change uncontested director elections from "routine" to
"non-routine." As a result of this rule change, brokers are prohibited from voting in director elections after January 1, 2010, without specific instructions from beneficial owners.
In addition, the proposal regarding the amended 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan and approval of the expanded Performance Criteria available under such Plan and the stockholder proposal are
considered to be 
3



 
Table of Contents

"non-routine"
and brokers are prohibited from voting on these matters without specific instructions from beneficial owners. 
        If
you are a beneficial owner (other than as a participant in the 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M Savings Plan), your bank, broker, or other
holder of record is permitted to vote your shares on the ratification of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm, even if the record holder does not
receive voting instructions from you. 
        Election of Directors — In accordance with 3M's Bylaws, each director is elected by the vote of the majority of votes
cast (which means the number of votes cast "for" a director's election exceeds the number of votes cast "against" that director's election with "abstentions" and "broker non-votes" not
counted as a vote cast either "for" or "against" that director's election) with respect to that director's election at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided
that if, as of the tenth (10th) day preceding the date the Company first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the Company's stockholders, the number of nominees exceeds the number of
directors to be elected (a "Contested Election"), the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast (which means that the nominees who receive the most affirmative votes are
elected to serve as directors). 
        For
an election where the majority vote standard applies, the Nominating and Governance Committee has established procedures under which any incumbent director who is not elected shall
offer to tender his or her resignation to the Board. In the event an incumbent director fails to receive a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election, the Nominating
and Governance Committee, or such other committee designated by the Board of Directors, shall make a recommendation to the Board of Directors as to whether to accept or reject the resignation of such
incumbent director, or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors shall act on the resignation, taking into account the Committee's recommendation, and publicly disclose (by a press
release and filing an appropriate disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission) its decision regarding the resignation and, if such resignation is rejected, the rationale behind the decision
within ninety (90) days following certification of the election results. The Nominating and Governance Committee in making its recommendation and the Board of Directors
in making its decision each may consider any factors and other information that they consider appropriate and relevant. 
        An
incumbent director who fails to receive a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election (as defined above) and who tenders his or her resignation pursuant
to these Guidelines shall remain active and engaged in Board activities while the Nominating and Governance Committee and the Board decide whether to accept or reject such resignation, or whether
other action should be taken; provided, however, it is expected that such incumbent director shall not participate in any proceedings by the Nominating and Governance Committee or the Board regarding
whether to accept or reject such director's resignation, or whether to take other action with respect to such director. 
        If
the Board of Directors accepts a director's resignation, or if a nominee for director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board of Directors may fill
the resulting vacancy pursuant to the Bylaws. 
        All Other Proposals — The affirmative "FOR" vote of a majority of those shares present in person or represented by
proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the matter is required to approve all other proposals. In tabulating the voting result for any particular proposal, abstentions and, if applicable, broker
non-votes are not counted as votes "FOR" or "AGAINST" the proposal. An abstention will, however, be counted as entitled to vote on a proposal and will, therefore, have the effect of a vote
"AGAINST." The stockholder proposal is presented as a request to the Board to take action. Affirmative votes for the stockholder proposal will inform the Board about the level of support for the
proposal. 
4



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Voting Methods     
        If you hold shares directly as the stockholder of record, you may vote by granting a proxy or vote in person at the Annual Meeting by
requesting a ballot, or, if you hold shares beneficially in street name, by submitting voting instructions to your broker or nominee. If you own shares beneficially as a participant in the 3M
Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M Savings Plan, you may vote by submitting voting instructions to the trustee. In most instances, you will be able to do this over
the Internet, by telephone, or by mail. Even if you plan to attend the Annual Meeting, we recommend that you vote your shares in
advance as described below so that your vote will be counted if you later decide not to attend the Annual Meeting. Please refer to the summary instructions below and those included on your
E-Proxy Notice or proxy card or, for shares held in street name, the voting instruction card included by your broker or nominee. 
        The
Internet and telephone voting procedures are designed to authenticate stockholders by use of a control number and to allow you to confirm that your instructions have been properly
recorded. If you vote by telephone or on the Internet, you do not need to return your proxy card. Telephone and Internet voting for stockholders of record will be available 24 hours a day, up
until 10:59 p.m. (Central Time) on May 10, 2010. Participants in 3M's Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan and the 3M Savings Plan may instruct the trustee how to
vote their shares via the Internet, by telephone, or by signing and returning the proxy card by 10:59 p.m. (Central Time) on May 6, 2010.  


•VOTE BY INTERNET — www.proxyvote.com — If you have
Internet access, you may submit your proxy from any location in the world 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Have your proxy card or E-Proxy Notice when you access the Web site
and follow the instructions to obtain your records and to create an electronic voting instruction form.   
•VOTE BY TELEPHONE — 1-800-690-6903 — If you live
in the United States, you may use any touch-tone telephone to vote your proxy toll-free 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Have your proxy card or E-Proxy
Notice in hand when you call and then follow the instructions.   
•VOTE BY MAIL — You may do this by signing your proxy card or, for shares held in street name, the
voting instruction card included by your broker or nominee and mailing it. If you provide specific voting instructions, your shares will be voted as you instruct. If you sign, but do not provide
instructions, your shares will be voted as the Board recommends. Mark, sign, and date your proxy card and return it in the postage-paid envelope provided so that it is received by
May 10, 2010, to 3M Company, c/o Broadridge, 51 Mercedes Way, Edgewood, NY 11717. 

        All
shares that have been properly voted and not revoked will be voted at the Annual Meeting. 
 
 
  Changing Your Vote     
        You may change your proxy instructions at any time prior to the vote at the Annual Meeting. You may enter a new vote by using the
Internet or the telephone or by mailing a new proxy card or new voting instruction card bearing a later date (which will automatically revoke your earlier voting instructions). For shares held
directly in your name, you may accomplish this by granting a new proxy or by voting in person at the Annual Meeting. For shares held beneficially by you, you may change your vote by submitting new
voting instructions to your broker or nominee. 
 
 
  Counting the Vote     
        In the election of directors, you may vote "FOR" or "AGAINST" one or more of the nominees or you may "ABSTAIN." For the other
proposals, you may vote "FOR," "AGAINST," or "ABSTAIN," except that if you "ABSTAIN," it has the same effect as a vote "AGAINST." If you sign your proxy card or broker voting instruction card with no
further instructions, your shares will be voted in accordance with the recommendations of the Board. Shares held in your account in the 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and 
5



 
Table of Contents

Employee
Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M Savings Plan will be voted by the trustee as described in "Stockholders Entitled to Vote" on page 2. 
        Representatives
of Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc. will tabulate the votes and act as the inspectors of election. 
 
 
  Confidentiality     
        The Company's Board of Directors has a policy that all stockholder proxies, ballots, and tabulations that identify stockholders are to
be maintained in confidence. No such document will be available for examination, and the identity and vote of any stockholder will not be disclosed, except as necessary to meet legal requirements and
allow the inspectors of election to certify the results of the stockholder vote. The policy also provides that inspectors of election for stockholder votes must be independent and cannot be employees
of the Company. Occasionally, stockholders provide written comments on their proxy card that may be forwarded to 3M management. 
 
 
  Results of the Vote     
        We will announce preliminary voting results at the meeting and disclose the preliminary results (or final results) in our Current
Report on Form 8-K within four business days of the Annual Meeting date. A news release with voting results will also be available on our Web site
www.3M.com/profile/pressbox/index.jhtml. 
 
 
  Delivery of Documents to Stockholders Sharing an Address     
        Securities and Exchange Commission rules allow us to deliver a single copy of an annual report and proxy statement to any household not
participating in electronic proxy material delivery at which two or more stockholders reside, if we believe the stockholders are members of the same family. This rule benefits both you and the
Company. We believe it eliminates irritating duplicate mailings that stockholders living at the same address receive and it reduces our printing and mailing costs. This rule applies to any annual
reports, proxy statements, proxy statements combined with a prospectus or information statements. Each stockholder will continue to receive a separate proxy card or voting instruction card. 
        Your
household may have received a single set of proxy materials this year. If you prefer to receive your own copy now or in future years, please request a duplicate set by calling
1-800-579-1639, by going to the following Web site:
www.proxyvote.com, or by E-mail at sendmaterial@proxyvote.com, or in writing to 3M Company, c/o Broadridge, 51 Mercedes Way,
Edgewood, NY 11717. 
        If
a broker or other nominee holds your shares, you may continue to receive some duplicate mailings. Certain brokers will eliminate duplicate account mailings by allowing stockholders to
consent to such elimination, or through implied consent if a stockholder does not request continuation of duplicate mailings. Since not all brokers and nominees may offer stockholders the opportunity
this year to eliminate duplicate mailings, you may need to contact your broker or nominee directly to discontinue duplicate mailings to your household. 
 
 
  List of Stockholders     
        The names of stockholders of record entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting will be available at the Annual Meeting and for ten days
prior to the meeting for any purpose germane to the meeting, between the hours of 7:45 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. (Central Time), at our principal executive offices at 3M Center,
St. Paul, Minnesota, by contacting the Secretary of the Company. 
6



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Cost of Proxy Solicitation     
        3M will pay for the cost of preparing, assembling, printing, mailing, and distributing these proxy materials. You will need to obtain
your own Internet access if you choose to access the proxy materials and/or vote over the Internet. In addition to mailing these proxy materials, the solicitation of proxies or votes may be made in
person, by telephone, or electronic communication by our directors, officers, and employees, who do not receive any additional compensation for these solicitation activities. We have hired Georgeson
Shareholder Communications, Inc. to assist us in the distribution of proxy materials and the solicitation of votes. We will pay Georgeson Shareholder Communications, Inc. a fee of
$20,000 plus expenses for these services. We will also reimburse brokerage houses and other custodians, nominees, and fiduciaries for their reasonable out-of-pocket expenses
for forwarding proxy and solicitation materials to beneficial owners of stock. 
 
 
  Transfer Agent     
        Our Transfer Agent is Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. All communications concerning stockholders of record accounts, including address changes,
name changes, common stock transfer requirements, and similar issues can be handled by contacting Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. at 1-800-401-1952 (U.S.),
651-450-4064 (outside the U.S.), www.wellsfargo.com/shareownerservices, or in writing, P.O. Box 64854, St. Paul, MN
55164-0854. 
7




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  GOVERNANCE OF THE COMPANY     
 
    Corporate Governance Guidelines     
        The Board has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines that, along with the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, and charters of the
Board committees, provide the framework for the governance of the Company. The Board's Nominating and Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing and reviewing the Guidelines at least annually,
and
recommending any proposed changes to the Board for approval. The Corporate Governance Guidelines, the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, and charters of the Board committees are available on our
Web site at www.3M.com, under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance. 
 
 
  Executive Sessions     
        Independent directors regularly meet in executive sessions without the Chairman and CEO or other members of management present to
review the criteria upon which the performance of the Chairman and CEO is based, to review the performance of the Chairman and CEO against those criteria, to ratify the compensation of the Chairman
and CEO as approved by the Compensation Committee, and to discuss any other relevant matters. 
 
 
  Board's Leadership Structure     
        The Board's current leadership structure is characterized by: 


•a combined Chairman of the Board and CEO;   
•a strong, independent, and highly experienced lead director with well-defined responsibilities that support
the Board's oversight responsibilities;   
•a robust Committee structure with oversight of various types of risks; and   
•an engaged and independent Board. 

        The
Board believes that its current leadership structure provides independent board leadership and engagement while deriving the benefit of having our CEO also serve as Chairman of the
Board. As the individual with primary responsibility for managing the Company's day-to-day operations and with in-depth knowledge and understanding of the Company,
he is best positioned to chair regular Board meetings as we discuss key business and strategic issues. Coupled with an independent Lead Director, this combined structure provides independent oversight
while avoiding unnecessary confusion regarding the Board's oversight responsibilities and the day-to-day management of business operations. 
        The
Board of Directors believes it is fundamentally wrong to permanently and inflexibly separate or combine the positions of Chairman of
the Board and Chief Executive Officer. To do so prevents the Board from acting in the stockholders' best interests when selecting future Board leadership. The Board rejected permanently separating or
combining the positions of Chairman and CEO in its Corporate Governance Guidelines, which are reviewed at least annually and available on our Web site at www.3M.com, under
Investor Relations — Corporate Governance. Instead, the Board adopted an approach that allows it, in representing the stockholders' best interests, to decide who should serve as
Chairman or CEO, or both, under present or anticipated future circumstances. 
        The
Board believes that the Company's corporate governance measures ensure that strong, independent directors continue to effectively oversee the Company's management and key issues
related to executive compensation, CEO evaluation and succession planning, strategy, risk, and integrity. The Board has also designated one of their members to serve as lead director, with 
8



 
Table of Contents

responsibilities
(described in the next section) that are similar to those typically performed by a separate chairman. 
        The
Board believes that combining the roles of CEO and Chairman contributes to an efficient and effective Board. The independent directors recruited the current Chairman and CEO from
outside 3M to be its leader in a time of changing and challenging global economic conditions. The Board believes that to drive change and continuous improvement within the Company, tempered by respect
for 3M's traditions and values, the CEO must have maximum authority to be effective. The CEO is primarily responsible for effectively leading significant change, improving operational efficiency,
driving growth, managing the Company's day-to-day business, managing the various risks facing the Company, and reinforcing the expectation for all employees of continuing to
build on 3M's century-old tradition of uncompromising honesty and integrity. The Board currently believes the CEO is best able to chair regular Board
meetings and, with his in-depth knowledge and understanding of the Company, bring key business issues and stakeholder interests to the Board's attention. 
 
 
  Lead Independent Director     
        The 3M Board of Directors has designated one of their members to serve as a lead director, with responsibilities that are similar to
those typically performed by an independent chairman ("Lead Director"). Dr. Vance Coffman currently serves as Lead Director. Dr. Coffman is a highly experienced director, currently
serving on the boards of Amgen, Inc. and Deere & Company, and former Chairman and CEO of Lockheed Martin Corporation. His responsibilities include: 


•presides at all meetings of the Board at which the Chairman is not present, including executive sessions of the
independent directors;   
•acts as a key liaison between the Chairman/CEO and the independent directors;   
•assists the Chairman/CEO in setting the Board agenda and frequency of meetings;   
•has the authority to call meetings of the independent directors;   
•communicates Board member feedback to the Chairman/CEO (except that the chair of the Compensation Committee leads the
discussion of the Chairman/CEO's performance and communicates the Board's evaluation of that performance to the Chairman/CEO); and   
•performs such other duties as requested by the Board. 

 
 
  Communication with Directors     
        The Board of Directors has adopted the following process for stockholders and other interested parties to send communications to
members of the Board. Stockholders and other interested parties may communicate with the Lead Director, the chairs of the Audit, Compensation, Finance, and Nominating and Governance Committees of the
Board, or with any of our other independent directors, by sending a letter to the following address: Corporate Secretary, 3M Company, 3M Center, Building 220-13E-34,
St. Paul, MN 55144-1000. 
 
 
  Director Independence     
        The Board of Directors has adopted a formal set of Director Independence Guidelines with respect to the determination of director
independence, the full text of which is available on our Web site at www.3M.com, under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance. In accordance with
these Guidelines, a director or nominee for director must be determined to have no material relationship with the Company other than as a director. The Guidelines specify the criteria by which the
independence of our directors will be determined, including strict guidelines for directors and their immediate families with respect to past employment or affiliation with the Company or its
independent registered public accounting firm. 
9



 
Table of Contents

The
Guidelines also prohibit Audit Committee members from having any direct or indirect financial relationship with the Company, and restrict both commercial and not-for-profit
relationships of all directors with the Company. Directors may not be given personal loans or extensions of credit by the Company, and all directors are required to deal at arm's length with the
Company and its subsidiaries, and to disclose any circumstance that might be perceived as a conflict of interest. 
        In
accordance with these Guidelines, the Board undertook its annual review of director independence. During this review, the Board considered transactions and relationships between each
director, or any member of his or her immediate family and the Company and its subsidiaries
and affiliates in each of the most recent three completed fiscal years. The Board also considered whether there were any transactions or relationships between directors or any member of their
immediate family (or any entity of which a director or an immediate family member is an executive officer, general partner, or significant equity holder). The Board considered that in the ordinary
course of business, transactions may occur between the Company and its subsidiaries and companies at which some of our directors are or have been officers. In particular, with respect to each of the
most recent three completed fiscal years, the Board evaluated for each of the directors, Michael L. Eskew, Herbert L. Henkel, Edward M. Liddy, and Robert J. Ulrich, the annual amount of sales to 3M by
the company where he serves (or served) as an executive officer, and purchases by that company from 3M, and determined that the amount of sales and purchases in each fiscal year was below one percent
of the annual revenues of each of those companies, the threshold set forth in the Director Independence Guidelines. The Board also considered charitable contributions to
not-for-profit organizations with which our directors or immediate family members are affiliated, none of which approached the levels set forth in our Director Independence
Guidelines. 
        As
a result of this review, the Board affirmatively determined that the following directors are independent under these Guidelines: Linda G. Alvarado, Vance D. Coffman, Michael L. Eskew,
W. James Farrell, Herbert L. Henkel, Edward M. Liddy, Robert S. Morrison, Aulana L. Peters, and Robert J. Ulrich. The Board has also determined that no members of the Audit Committee received any
compensation from the Company other than directors' fees. George W. Buckley is considered to not be independent because of his employment as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company. 
 
 
  Director Nomination Process     
 Role of the Nominating and Governance Committee  
        The Nominating and Governance Committee ("Committee") identifies individuals that the Committee believes are qualified to become Board
members in accordance with the Board Membership Criteria set forth below, and recommends selected individuals to the Board for nomination to stand for election at the next meeting of stockholders of
the Company in which directors will be elected. In the event there is a vacancy on the Board between meetings of stockholders, the Committee seeks to identify individuals that the Committee believes
are qualified to become Board members in accordance with the Board Membership Criteria set forth below, and may recommend one or more of such individuals for appointment to the Board. 
 Nominees Proposed by Stockholders for Consideration by the Committee  
        The Committee has a policy to consider properly submitted stockholder nominees for candidates for membership on the Board of Directors.
Stockholders proposing individuals for consideration by the Committee must include at least the following information about the proposed nominee: the proposed nominee's name, age, business or
residence address, principal occupation or employment, and whether such person has given written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and 
10



 
Table of Contents

to
serving as a director if elected. Stockholders should send the required information about the nominee to: 

Corporate
Secretary
3M Company
3M Center
Building 220-13E-34
St. Paul, MN 55144-1000. 

        In
order for an individual proposed by a stockholder to be considered by the Committee for recommendation as a Board nominee for the 2011 Annual Meeting, the Corporate Secretary must
receive the proposal no later than 5 p.m. Central Time on November 24, 2010. Such proposals must be sent via registered, certified, or express mail (or other means that allows the
stockholder to determine when the proposal was received by the Company). The Corporate Secretary will send properly submitted stockholder proposed nominations to the Committee Chair for consideration
at a future Committee meeting. Individuals proposed by stockholders in accordance with these procedures will receive the same consideration that individuals identified to the Committee through other
means receive. 
 Stockholder Nominations  
        In addition, 3M's Bylaws permit stockholders to nominate directors at an Annual Meeting of stockholders or at a special meeting at
which directors are to be elected in
accordance with the notice of meeting. Stockholders intending to nominate a person for election as a director must comply with the requirements set forth in the Company's Bylaws. With respect to
nominations to be acted upon at our 2011 Annual Meeting, our Bylaws would require, among other things, that the Corporate Secretary receive written notice from the record stockholder no earlier than
January 11, 2011, and no later than February 10, 2011. The notice must contain the information required by the Bylaws, a copy of which is available on our Web site at
www.3M.com, under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance. Nominations received after February 10, 2011, will not be acted upon at the Annual
Meeting. 
 Board Membership Criteria  
        The Committee periodically reviews with the Board the requisite skills and characteristics of its members. 3M's Corporate Governance
Guidelines contain Board Membership Criteria that apply to nominees for a position on 3M's Board. The Committee periodically reviews with the Board the appropriate skills and characteristics required
of Board members given the current Board composition. It is the intent of the Board that the Board, itself, will be a high performance organization creating competitive advantage for the Company. To
perform as such, the Board will be comprised of individuals who have distinguished records of leadership and success in their arena of activity and who will make substantial contributions to Board
operations and effectively represent the interests of all stockholders. The Committee's and the Board's assessment of Board candidates includes, but is not limited to, consideration
of: 


(i)Roles
and contributions valuable to the business community;
(ii)Personal
qualities of leadership, character, judgment, and whether the candidate possesses and maintains throughout service on the Board a reputation in
the community at large of integrity, trust, respect, competence, and adherence to the highest ethical standards;
(iii)Relevant
knowledge and diversity of background and experience in such things as business, manufacturing, technology, finance and accounting, marketing,
international business, government, and the like; and 

11



 
Table of Contents


(iv)Whether
the candidate is free of conflicts and has the time required for preparation, participation, and attendance at all meetings. 

        In
addition to these minimum requirements, the Committee will also evaluate whether the nominee's skills are complementary to the existing Board members' skills, the Board's needs for
particular expertise in fields such as business, manufacturing, technology, financial, marketing, international, governmental, or other areas of expertise, and assess the nominee's impact on Board
dynamics and effectiveness. 
 Diversity  
        The Board of Directors values diversity as a factor in selecting nominees to serve on the Board, and believes that the diversity which
exists in its composition provides significant benefit to the Board and the Company. Although there is no specific policy on diversity, the Nominating and Governance Committee considers the Board
Membership Criteria in selecting nominees for directors, including "diversity of background." Such considerations may include gender, race, national origin, functional background, executive or
professional experience, and international experience. 
 Identification, Evaluation, and Selection of Nominees  
        The Committee periodically reviews the appropriate size and composition of the Board and anticipates future vacancies and needs of the
Board. In the event the Committee recommends an increase in the size of the Board or a vacancy occurs, the Committee considers qualified nominees from several sources, including current Board members
and nominees recommended by stockholders and other persons. 
        The
Committee may from time to time retain a director search firm to help the Committee identify qualified director nominees for consideration by the Committee. 
        The
Committee evaluates qualified director nominees at regular or special Committee meetings against the current Board Membership Criteria described above and reviews qualified director
nominees with the Board. The Committee and the Chairman of the Board interview candidates that meet the Board Membership Criteria and the Committee selects nominees that best suit the Board's current
needs and recommends one or more of such individuals for election to the Board. 
 
 
  Board's Role in Risk Oversight     
        The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee through its charter the primary responsibility for the oversight of risks facing the
Company. The charter provides that the Audit Committee "Discuss policies and procedures with respect to risk assessment and risk management, the Company's major risk exposures and the steps management
has taken to monitor and mitigate such exposures." 
        The
Vice President and General Auditor, Corporate Auditing ("Auditor"), whose appointment and performance is reviewed and evaluated by the Audit Committee and who has direct access to
the Committee, is responsible for leading the formal risk assessment and management process within the Company. The Auditor, through consultation with the Company's senior management, periodically
assesses the major risks facing the Company and works with those executives responsible for managing each specific risk. The Auditor periodically reviews with the Audit Committee the major risks
facing the Company and the steps management has taken to monitor and mitigate those risks. The Auditor's risk management report, which is provided in advance of the meeting, is reviewed with the
entire Board by either the Chair of the Audit Committee or the Auditor. The executive responsible for managing a particular risk may also report to the full Board on how the risk is being managed and
mitigated. 
12



 
Table of Contents
        While
the Board's primary oversight of risk is with the Audit Committee, the Board has delegated to other committees the oversight of risks within their areas of responsibility and
expertise. For example, the Compensation Committee oversees the risks associated with the Company's compensation practices, including an annual review of the Company's risk assessment of its
compensation policies and practices for its employees. The Finance Committee oversees risks
associated with the Company's capital structure, its credit ratings and its cost of capital, long-term benefit obligations, and the Company's use of or investment in financial products,
including derivatives used to manage risk related to foreign currencies, commodities, and interest rates. The Nominating and Governance Committee oversees the risks associated with the Company's
overall governance and its succession planning process to understand that the Company has a slate of future, qualified candidates for key management positions. 
        The
Board believes that its oversight of risks, primarily through delegation to the Audit Committee, but also through delegation to other committees to oversee specific risks within
their areas of responsibility and expertise, and the sharing of information with the full Board, is appropriate for a diversified technology and manufacturing company like 3M. The chair of each
committee that oversees risk provides a summary of the matters discussed with the committee to the full Board following each committee meeting. The minutes of each committee meeting are also provided
to all Board members. The Board also believes its oversight of risk is enhanced by its current leadership structure (discussed above) because the CEO, who is ultimately responsible for the Company's
management of risk, also chairs regular Board meetings, and with his in-depth knowledge and understanding of the Company, is best able to bring key business issues and risks to the Board's
attention. 
 
 
  3M Business Conduct Policies     
        More than a century of operating with honesty and integrity has earned 3M trust from our customers, credibility with our communities,
and dedication from our employees. All of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Accounting Officer, are required to abide by 3M's business conduct
policies to ensure that our business is conducted in a consistently legal and ethical manner. These policies form the foundation of a comprehensive process that includes compliance with corporate
policies and procedures and a companywide focus on uncompromising honesty and integrity in every aspect of our operations. Our business conduct policies cover many topics, including antitrust and
competition law, conflicts of interest, financial reporting, protection of confidential information, and compliance with all laws and regulations applicable to the conduct of our business. 
        Employees
are required to report any conduct that they believe in good faith to be an actual or apparent violation of the business conduct policies. The Audit Committee has adopted
procedures to receive, retain, and treat complaints received regarding accounting, internal accounting controls, or auditing matters, and to allow for the confidential and anonymous submission by
employees or others of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters. Information on how to submit any such communications can be found on 3M's Web site at
http://www.3m.com/busconducttrain/. 
        The
Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for directors of the Company. This Code incorporates long-standing principles of conduct the Company
and the Board follow to ensure the Company's business and the activities of the Board are conducted with integrity, adherence to the highest ethical standards, and in compliance with the law. 
        The
Company's Business Conduct Policies for employees and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors are available on our Web site at www.3M.com
under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance, and copies of these policies are also available to any stockholder upon request to Investor Relations. 
13



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Related Person Transaction Policy and Procedures     
        The Board of Directors has adopted a written Related Person Transaction Policy which is administered by the Nominating and Governance
Committee. This policy applies to any transaction or series of transactions in which the Company or a subsidiary is a participant, the amount involved exceeds $120,000, and a Related Person has a
direct or indirect material interest. Under the Policy, Company management will determine whether a transaction meets the requirements of a Related Person Transaction requiring review by the
Committee. Transactions that fall within this definition will be referred to the Committee for approval, ratification, or other action. Based on its consideration of all of the relevant facts and
circumstances, the Committee will decide whether or not to approve such transaction and will approve only those transactions that are in the best interests of the Company. In the course of its review
and approval or ratification of a transaction, the Committee shall consider: 


1.the
nature of the related person's interest in the transaction;
2.the
material terms of the transaction, including whether the transaction is on terms no less favorable than terms generally available to an unaffiliated
third party under the same or similar circumstances;
3.the
significance of the transaction to the related person;
4.the
significance of the transaction to the Company;
5.whether
the transaction would impair the judgment of a director or executive officer to act in the best interest of the Company; and
6.any
other matters the Committee deems appropriate. 

        Any
Committee member who is a related person with respect to a transaction under review may not participate in the deliberations or vote respecting such approval or ratification;
provided, however, that such director may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Committee which considers the transaction. 
 
 
  Policy on Adoption of a Rights Plan     
        In 2002 and 2003, a 3M stockholder submitted a shareholder proposal to 3M regarding the approval process for adopting a stockholders'
rights plan (also known as a "poison pill"). 3M does not have a rights plan and is not currently considering adopting one. The Board continues to believe, however, that there may be circumstances
under which adoption of a rights plan would be necessary to give the Board the negotiating power and leverage to obtain the best result for 3M stockholders in the context of a takeover effort. 
        Following
consideration of the favorable vote the stockholder proposal received and in light of this belief, the Board has adopted and reaffirmed a statement of policy on this topic. The
Board's policy is that it will only adopt a rights plan if either (1) stockholders have approved adoption of the rights plan or (2) the Board in its exercise of its fiduciary
responsibilities, including a majority of the independent members of the Board, makes a determination that, under the circumstances existing
at the time, it is in the best interests of 3M's stockholders to adopt a rights plan without the delay in adoption that would come from the time reasonably anticipated to seek stockholder approval. 
        The
Board has directed the Nominating and Governance Committee to review this policy statement on an annual basis and to report to the Board on any recommendations it may have concerning
the policy. The terms of the policy, as in effect, will be included in 3M's published Corporate Governance Guidelines and its proxy statement. 
14




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP     
        The Board currently has ten directors and the following four Committees: Audit, Compensation, Finance, and Nominating and Governance.
The membership during 2009 and the function of each Committee are described below. 
        During
2009, the Board of Directors held six regularly scheduled meetings. Overall attendance at Board and committee meetings was 97 percent. Eight, one, and one of our directors
attended 100, 94, and 79 percent, respectively, of the regularly scheduled meetings of the Board and Board committees on which they served in 2009. 
        The
Company has a long-standing policy that directors are expected to attend the Annual Meeting of Stockholders unless extenuating circumstances prevent them from attending.
All directors attended last year's Annual Meeting of Stockholders. 
        The
Board and each Committee conducted an evaluation of their performance in 2009. 























 
 


Name of Non-Employee Director
 
Audit
 
Compensation
 
Finance
 
Nominating
and
Governance
 


 
 


 



 Linda G. Alvarado
 
 
   X   
 
 
 
 
 
   X   
 
 
 
 


 
 


 Vance D. Coffman
 
 
 
 
 
   X *
 
 
 
 
 
   X   
 


 
 


 



 Michael L. Eskew
 
 
   X   
 
 
 
 
 
   X *
 
 
 
 


 
 


 W. James Farrell
 
 
   X   
 
 
 
 
 
   X   
 
 
 
 


 
 


 



 Herbert L. Henkel
 
 
   X *
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   X   
 


 
 


 Edward M. Liddy
 
 
   X   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   X   
 


 
 


 



 Robert S. Morrison
 
 
 
 
 
   X   
 
 
 
 
 
   X *
 


 
 


 Aulana L. Peters
 
 
 
 
 
   X   
 
 
   X   
 
 
 
 


 
 


 



 Robert J. Ulrich
 
 
 
 
 
   X   
 
 
 
 
 
   X   
 


 
 




X =
Committee Member; * = Chair 
15



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Audit Committee     
        In 2009, the Audit Committee met eight times. The Committee assists the Board in its oversight of the integrity of the Company's
financial statements, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the qualifications, independence, and performance of the Company's independent registered public accounting firm (the
"Independent Accounting Firm"), and the performance of the Company's internal auditing department. In addition, the Committee: 


•Reviews the Company's annual audited and quarterly consolidated financial statements;   
•Reviews the Company's financial reporting process and disclosure and internal controls and procedures, including major
issues regarding accounting principles and financial statement presentation, and critical accounting policies to be used in the consolidated financial statements;   
•Reviews and discusses with management and the Independent Accounting Firm the Company's internal controls report and the
Independent Accounting Firm's attestation of the Company's internal controls;   
•By delegation to the chair, reviews earnings press releases prior to issuance;   
•Appoints, oversees, and approves compensation of the Independent Accounting Firm;   
•Reviews with the Independent Accounting Firm the scope of the annual audit, including fees and staffing, and approves all
audit and permitted non-audit services provided by the Independent Accounting Firm;   
•Reviews findings and recommendations of the Independent Accounting Firm and management's response to the recommendations
of the Independent Accounting Firm;   
•Discusses policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management, the Company's major risk exposures, and the steps
management has taken to monitor and mitigate such exposures; and   
•Reviews compliance with the Company's business conduct policies. 

        The
Board of Directors has determined that all of the Audit Committee members are "independent," "financially literate," and have "accounting or related financial management expertise"
under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The Board has also determined that all of the Audit Committee members — Herbert L. Henkel (chair), Linda G. Alvarado, Michael L.
Eskew, W. James Farrell, and Edward M. Liddy — are "audit committee financial experts" as that term is defined by applicable SEC regulations. The charter of the Audit Committee is
available at www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — Committee Charters. 
 
 
  Compensation Committee     
        In 2009, the Compensation Committee met six times. The Committee reviews the Company's compensation practices and policies, annually
reviews and approves (subject to ratification by the independent directors of the Board) the compensation for the CEO, annually reviews and approves the compensation for the other senior executives,
evaluates CEO performance, reviews and discusses with management of the Company the Compensation Discussion and Analysis prepared in accordance with the SEC's disclosure rules for executive
compensation, and furnishes a report for inclusion in the Company's proxy statement. In addition, the Committee: 


•Approves the adoption, amendment, and termination of incentive compensation and deferred compensation programs for
employees of the Company;   
•Approves, subject to ratification by the independent directors of the Board, employment agreements and severance
arrangements for the CEO, as appropriate; 

16



 
Table of Contents


•Approves employment agreements and severance arrangements for the senior executives of the Company (other than the CEO),
as appropriate;   
•Interprets and supervises the administration of the Company's stock and long-term incentive compensation
programs, and determines the employees who receive awards and the size of their awards under such programs;   
•Reviews and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning the design of the pension and other postretirement
benefit plans that have a material financial impact upon the Company;   
•Annually reviews a risk assessment of the Company's compensation policies and practices for its employees; and  
•Periodically reviews human resource issues relating to the Company's policies and practices with respect to workforce
diversity and equal employment opportunities. 

        The
Board of Directors has determined that all Compensation Committee members are "independent" under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The Board has also determined that
each Compensation Committee member qualifies as a "Non-Employee Director" under Rule 16b-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that each member (except Robert S.
Morrison due to his service in 2005 as interim CEO), qualifies as an "outside director" under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. The charter of the Compensation Committee is available
at www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — Committee Charters. 
 
 
  Finance Committee     
        The Finance Committee met six times in 2009. The Committee assists the Board with its oversight of the Company's capital structure,
financing, investment, and other financial matters of importance to the Company. In addition, the Committee: 


•Reviews and recommends for approval by the Board the dividend policy and the declaration of dividends or other forms of
distributions on the Company's stock, such as stock splits in the form of a stock dividend;   
•Reviews and recommends for approval by the Board the repurchase of the Company's stock;   
•Reviews and recommends for approval by the Board the Company's short- and long-term borrowings;  
•Reviews and recommends for approval by the Board the registration and issuance of the Company's debt or equity securities,
except in the case of the issuance of debt or equity securities in connection with a merger or acquisition transaction which is presented to the Board;   
•Periodically reviews the Company's ratings from credit rating agencies;   
•Reviews and recommends for approval by the Board an annual capital expenditure budget and revisions to that budget;  
•Reviews and recommends for approval by the Board capital expenditures in excess of $75,000,000;  
•Reviews and evaluates any risks associated with the Company's use of or investment in financial products, including
derivatives used to manage risk related to foreign currencies, commodity prices, and interest rates;   
•Periodically reviews the Company's insurance coverage; and   
•Periodically reviews the funding of the Company's pension and other benefit plans. 

17



 
Table of Contents
        The
Board of Directors has determined that all Finance Committee members are "independent" under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The charter of the Finance Committee is
available at www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — Committee Charters. 
 
 
  Nominating and Governance Committee     
        In 2009, the Nominating and Governance Committee met five times. The Committee establishes Board membership criteria, assists the Board
by identifying individuals qualified to become Board members, recommends to the Board matters of corporate governance, facilitates the annual review of the performance of the Board and its Committees,
and periodically reviews CEO and management succession plans. In addition, the Committee: 


•Selects and recommends candidates to the Board of Directors to be submitted for election at the Annual Meeting and
candidates to fill any vacancies on the Board, including stockholder nominees for director (submitted in accordance with the Company's Bylaws). The Committee considers all candidates in light of the
Board membership criteria adopted by the Board of Directors;   
•Reviews and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning the composition and size of the Board and its
Committees, Board membership criteria, frequency of meetings, and directors' fees;   
•Reviews the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines at least annually, and recommends any proposed changes to the Board
for approval;   
•Develops and recommends to the Board standards to be applied in making determinations on the types of relationships that
constitute material relationships between the Company and a director for purposes of determining director independence;   
•Reviews and approves or ratifies any transaction between the Company and any related person, which is required to be
disclosed under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission;   
•Develops and recommends to the Board for its approval an annual self-assessment process of the Board and its
Committees and oversees the process;   
•Reviews periodically with the Chairman/CEO succession plans relating to positions held by elected corporate officers, and
makes recommendations to the Board with respect to the selection of individuals to occupy these positions; and   
•Periodically reviews the corporate contribution program and the activities of the 3M Foundation. 

        The
Board of Directors has determined that all Nominating and Governance Committee members are "independent" under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The charter of the
Nominating and Governance Committee is available at www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — Committee Charters. 
18




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  DIRECTOR COMPENSATION AND STOCK OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES     
        The Nominating and Governance Committee periodically receives reports on the status of Board compensation in relation to other large
U.S. companies and is responsible for recommending to the Board changes in compensation for nonemployee directors. In developing its recommendations, the Committee is guided by the following goals:
compensation should fairly pay directors for work required in a company of 3M's size and scope, a significant portion of the total compensation should be paid in common stock to align directors'
interests with the long-term interests of stockholders, and the structure of the compensation should be simple and transparent. Periodically, at the request of the Committee, Frederic W.
Cook & Co., Inc. conducts a survey of director compensation at other large U.S. companies and provides expert advisory support to the Committee on the compensation of nonemployee
directors. Neither the Company nor the Nominating and Governance Committee has any arrangement with any other compensation consultant who has a role in determining or recommending the amount or form
of
director compensation. Nonemployee directors' compensation includes the following compensation elements: 
        Annual Compensation — In 2009, the Nominating and Governance Committee considered a board compensation study prepared
by Frederic W. Cook & Co., Inc. Given the economic conditions and the fact that employees of the Company received no merit increase in 2009, the Committee recommended no increase
in nonemployee director compensation. For 2009, the annual compensation for nonemployee directors was $205,000. Except as indicated, the annual compensation is payable in four installments following
the end of each quarter of service, approximately 40 percent (or $85,000) in cash and approximately 60 percent (or $120,000) in stock payable after the Annual Meeting. In addition, the
chair of a Board committee received an additional annual fee of $15,000. There are no meeting fees. In lieu of the cash fees, a director may elect to receive common stock of the Company. Each
nonemployee director may voluntarily defer all or part of their annual cash fees or stock award until they cease to be members of the Board. 

        Deferred Stock — For directors who have made an election to defer their annual stock award or annual cash fees into a
common stock equivalents account ("Deferred Stock"), the Company shall credit their account with a number of 3M common stock equivalents (including fractional share equivalents) equal to the number of
actual shares of 3M common stock which could have been purchased with such deferred amounts on the first day of the calendar quarter using the closing price of 3M common stock on the New York Stock
Exchange on the last business day immediately preceding such date. 3M common stock equivalents having a value equal to dividends paid on 3M common stock shall be credited to such an account on each
dividend payment date. The share equivalents shall be determined by using the closing price of 3M common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the sixth business day preceding the dividend record
date. The Deferred Stock is fully vested upon grant but does not have voting rights. Appropriate adjustments shall be made to the accounts for stock splits, stock dividends, merger, consolidation,
payment of dividends in other than cash, and similar circumstances affecting 3M common stock. The Deferred Stock will be distributed in 3M common stock to nonemployee directors beginning on
January 1 of the year following the year in which they leave the Board in a lump sum or up to ten annual installments pursuant to their deferral elections. 

        All Other Compensation — The column below showing "All Other Compensation" includes the following items: 

        Matching Gifts — The nonemployee directors are eligible to participate in the matching gift program on the same terms
as 3M employees. Under this program, the 3M Foundation will match up to a total of $10,000 a year in contributions by the director to eligible institutions of higher education. 

19



 
Table of Contents

        Other — This column also includes the incremental cost of complimentary products and the income imputed to the director
for travel by the director's spouse on corporate aircraft to attend Board functions. 

        Each
of these components is described in more detail below. The total 2009 compensation of our nonemployee directors is shown in the following table: 























 
 


Director
 
Fees Earned
Or Paid in
Cash($)(1)
 
Stock
Awards($)(2)
 
All Other
Compensation
($)(3)
 
Total
($)
 


 
 


 



 Linda G. Alvarado
 
 
85,000
 
 
120,000
 
 
3,400
 
 
208,400
 


 
 


 Vance D. Coffman*
 
 
100,000
 
 
120,000
 
 
4,512
 
 
224,512
 


 
 


 



 Michael L. Eskew*
 
 
100,000
 
 
120,000
 
 
1,187
 
 
221,187
 


 
 


 W. James Farrell
 
 
85,000
 
 
120,000
 
 
215
 
 
205,215
 


 
 


 



 Herbert L. Henkel*
 
 
96,250
 
 
120,000
 
 
370
 
 
216,620
 


 
 


 Edward M. Liddy
 
 
88,750
 
 
120,000
 
 
5,000
 
 
213,750
 


 
 


 



 Robert S. Morrison*
 
 
100,000
 
 
120,000
 
 
10,182
 
 
230,182
 


 
 


 Aulana L. Peters
 
 
85,000
 
 
120,000
 
 
14,469
 
 
219,469
 


 
 


 



 Robert J. Ulrich
 
 
85,000
 
 
120,000
 
 
—
 
 
205,000
 


 
 






*Committee
Chair
(1)This
column reports the amount of all fees earned or paid in cash for services as a director.
(2)This
column represents the grant date fair value of the stock awards made in 2009, computed in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board
Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, Compensation — Stock Compensation. The Company does not grant stock options to nonemployee directors except that Robert S.
Morrison has 92,632 fully-vested stock options outstanding, which were previously granted to him as interim Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company from June 30 to
December 6, 2005. Since all stock awards vest on the grant date, there are no unvested stock awards outstanding at year end.
(3)This
column includes participation in the matching gift program with Robert S. Morrison and Aulana L. Peters participating at the $10,000
level and Edward M. Liddy participating at the $5,000 level. This column also includes the incremental cost of complimentary products and the income imputed to the director for travel by the
director's spouse on corporate aircraft to attend Board functions. 

         Expenses.    Nonemployee directors are reimbursed for their expenses in connection with attending Board meetings (including expenses
related to spouses
when they are invited to attend Board events). Nonemployee directors may use the Company aircraft for travel to and from 3M Board meetings. 
         Stock Ownership Guidelines.    The Board requires that each director retain the stock portion (currently valued at $120,000) of the annual
compensation
issued on or after October 1, 2007, until the director leaves the Board. Information regarding accumulated stock and deferred stock units is set forth in the section entitled "Information on
Stock Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers." 
20




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  PROPOSALS TO BE VOTED ON     
 
   PROPOSAL NO. 1  ELECTION OF DIRECTORS     
        The Board of Directors currently has ten members. At the 2010 Annual Meeting, each of the directors is standing for reelection to hold
office until the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. We expect each nominee for election as a director to be able to serve if elected. If any nominee is not able to serve, proxies will be voted in
favor of the remainder of those nominated
and may be voted for substitute nominees, unless the Board chooses to reduce the number of directors serving on the Board. Each nominee elected as a director will continue in office until his or her
successor has been elected and qualified, or until his or her earlier death, resignation, or retirement. 
        Majority Vote Standard — In accordance with 3M's Bylaws, each director is elected by the vote of the majority of votes
cast (which means the number of votes cast "for" a director's election exceeds the number of votes cast "against" that director's election with "abstentions" and "broker non-votes" not
counted as a vote cast either "for" or "against" that director's election) with respect to that director's election at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided
that if, as of the tenth (10th) day preceding the date the Company first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the Company's stockholders, the number of nominees exceeds the number of
directors to be elected (a "Contested Election"), the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast (which means that the nominees who receive the most affirmative votes are
elected to serve as directors). 
        For
an election where the majority vote standard applies, the Nominating and Governance Committee has established procedures under which any incumbent director who is not elected shall
offer to tender his or her resignation to the Board. In the event an incumbent director fails to receive a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election, the Nominating
and Governance Committee, or such other committee designated by the Board of Directors, shall make a recommendation to the Board of Directors as to whether to accept or reject the resignation of such
incumbent director, or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors shall act on the resignation, taking into account the Committee's recommendation, and publicly disclose (by a press
release and filing an appropriate disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission) its decision regarding the resignation and, if such resignation is rejected, the rationale behind the decision
within ninety (90) days following certification of the election results. The Nominating and Governance Committee in making its recommendation and the Board of Directors in making its decision
each may consider any factors and other information that they consider appropriate and relevant. 
        An
incumbent director who fails to receive a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election (as defined above) and who tenders his or her resignation pursuant
to these Guidelines shall remain active and engaged in Board activities while the Nominating and Governance Committee and the Board decide whether to accept or reject such resignation, or whether
other action should be taken; provided, however, it is expected that such incumbent director shall not participate in any proceedings by the Nominating and Governance Committee or the Board regarding
whether to accept or reject such director's resignation, or whether to take other action with respect to such director. If the Board of Directors accepts a director's resignation, or if a nominee for
director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board of Directors may fill the resulting vacancy pursuant to the Bylaws. 
        Experience, Qualifications, Attributes, and Skills of Director Nominees — All of the nominees meet the Board Membership
Criteria described in the section entitled "Director Nomination Process." The principal occupation, public company directorships held currently or during the last five years, and other background
information about the nominees, including a
discussion of the specific experience, qualifications, attributes, and skills of each nominee that led to the Board's conclusion that each nominee should serve as a director, is set forth on the
following pages. 
        The Board of Directors recommends a vote "FOR" the election of these nominees as directors.
21



 
Table of Contents
 Nominees for Director:  















 
 Linda G. Alvarado, 58, President and Chief Executive Officer, Alvarado Construction, Inc., a Denver-based commercial general contractor, construction management and
development company. In 1976, Ms. Alvarado founded Alvarado Construction, Inc. and has overseen the growth of that enterprise as a commercial general contracting and design/build development firm conducting business
across the United States and internationally. Ms. Alvarado is on the board of the following public company in addition to 3M: Pitney Bowes, Inc. Ms. Alvarado formerly served on the boards of Lennox International Inc., QWEST
Communications International, Inc., and The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. Ms. Alvarado's leadership role and experiences in establishing and building successful businesses, including founding and serving as President and Chief Executive
Officer of Alvarado Construction, Inc., President of Palo Alto, Inc., which owns and operates numerous YUM! Brands restaurants in several states, and co-owner of the Colorado Rockies Major League Baseball Club, her skills in operations,
financial and audit matters, and her experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify her to serve as a director of 3M.
Director since 2000.





 
 George W. Buckley, 63, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer since December 2005. Before joining 3M in 2005,
Dr. Buckley was Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Brunswick Corporation, a global manufacturer and marketer of recreation products, since 2000, and served in other executive positions at Brunswick Corporation
from 1997 to 2000. He also held various leadership roles at Emerson Electric Co. as Chief Technology Officer and President of the Electric Motors Division from 1993 to 1997. Dr. Buckley is on the boards of the following public companies in
addition to 3M: Archer-Daniels-Midland Company and The Black & Decker Corporation. In addition, Dr. Buckley formerly served on the boards of Ingersoll-Rand plc and Tyco Corp. Dr. Buckley's Bachelor of Science degree in
Electrical and Electronic Engineering and his Doctoral degree in Engineering in joint study at Huddersfield and Southampton Universities, his leadership roles at Emerson Electric Co. and British Railways (as Managing Director of the Central Services
Division), his service as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Brunswick Corporation, his skills in business and financial matters, and his experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify him to serve as director and
Chairman of the Board of 3M.
Director since 2005.





 
 Vance D. Coffman, 65, Retired Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Lockheed Martin Corporation, a high technology aerospace and defense
company. Dr. Coffman served in various executive capacities at Lockheed Martin Corporation before becoming Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 1998. He retired as Chief Executive Officer in 2004 and as Chairman of the
Board in 2005. Dr. Coffman is on the boards of the following public companies in addition to 3M: Amgen Inc. and Deere & Company. In addition, Dr. Coffman formerly served on the board of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
Dr. Coffman's Bachelor of Science degree in Aerospace Engineering from Iowa State University and his Masters and Doctoral degrees in Aeronautics and Astronautics from Stanford University and his various leadership roles and experiences at
Lockheed Martin, including serving as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, his role in the integration of Lockheed and Martin Marietta Corporations, his skills in business and financial matters, and his experiences as a director at the
public companies listed above, qualify him to serve as a director of 3M.
Director since 2002.




22



 
Table of Contents















 
 Michael L. Eskew, 60, Retired Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, United Parcel Service, Inc., a provider of specialized transportation and logistics
services. Mr. Eskew was appointed Executive Vice President in 1999 and Vice Chairman in 2000 before becoming Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in January 2002. He retired as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer at the end of 2007 but remained as a director of UPS. Mr. Eskew is on the boards of the following public companies in addition to 3M and United Parcel Service: International Business Machines Corp. and Eli Lilly and Company.
Mr. Eskew's degree in industrial engineering from Purdue University, his leadership roles and experiences at United Parcel Service, including serving as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, his knowledge of and extensive
experiences in global logistics, his skills in financial and audit matters, and his experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify him to serve as a director of 3M.
Director since 2003.





 
 W. James Farrell, 67, Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Illinois Tool Works Inc., a multi-national manufacturer of highly engineered fasteners,
components, assemblies and systems. Mr. Farrell served in various executive capacities since joining ITW before becoming Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 1996. He retired as Chief Executive Officer in 2005 and as
Chairman in 2006. Mr. Farrell is on the boards of the following public companies in addition to 3M: Abbott Laboratories, The Allstate Corporation, and UAL Corporation. In addition, Mr. Farrell formerly served on the boards of Kraft Foods,
 Inc., and Sears, Roebuck and Co. Mr. Farrell's Bachelor of Science degree in electrical engineering from the University of Detroit, his leadership roles and experiences at Illinois Tool Works, including serving as Chairman of the
Board and Chief Executive Officer, his knowledge of and extensive experiences in global diversified manufacturing, his skills in financial and audit matters, and his experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify him to serve
as a director of 3M.
Director since 2006.





 
 Herbert L. Henkel, 61, Chairman of the Board (since May 2000), Ingersoll-Rand plc, a manufacturer of industrial products and components.
Mr. Henkel retired as Ingersoll-Rand's Chief Executive Officer, a position he held since October 1999, on February 4, 2010, and will remain as Chairman of the Board until his retirement from the company on June 3, 2010. Mr. Henkel
served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Ingersoll-Rand from April 1999 to October 1999. Mr. Henkel served in various leadership roles at Textron, Inc., including its President and Chief Operating Officer from 1998-1999.
Mr. Henkel is on the board of the following public company in addition to 3M and Ingersoll-Rand plc: C. R. Bard, Inc. In addition, Mr. Henkel formerly served on the board of Pitney Bowes, Inc. and AT&T Corp.
Mr. Henkel's Bachelor's and Master's degrees in Engineering from Polytechnic University of New York and Masters of Business Administration from the Lubin School at Pace University, his leadership roles and experiences at Textron, Inc. and
Ingersoll-Rand, including serving as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, his knowledge of and extensive experiences in engineering and manufacturing in multi industries, his skills in financial and audit matters, and his experiences as
a director at the public companies listed above, qualify him to serve as a director of 3M.
Director since 2007.




23



 
Table of Contents















 
 Edward M. Liddy, 64, Partner, Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, LLC, a private equity investment firm. Former Interim Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of American International Group, Inc. (AIG), a global insurance and financial services holding company (at the request of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Mr. Liddy agreed to serve as Interim Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of AIG in September 2008 in conjunction with the U.S. Government's actions to provide stability to AIG and certain other financial service firms). He retired from that position on August 9, 2009. Mr. Liddy served as
Chairman of the Board of the Allstate Corporation from January 1999 to April 2008. He served as Chief Executive Officer of Allstate from January 1999 to December 2006, President from January 1995 to May 2005, and Chief Operating Officer from August
1994 to January 1999. Mr. Liddy retired from his position as Chairman of Allstate in the spring of 2008. He became a partner in the private equity investment firm of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, LLC from April to September 2008 and
rejoined that firm as a partner in January 2010. In addition, Mr. Liddy formerly served on the boards of The Kroger Co., The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and The Boeing Company. Mr. Liddy's undergraduate degree from Catholic
University and his Masters of Business Administration from George Washington University, his leadership roles and experiences at Sears, Roebuck & Co. as Chief Financial Officer from 1992-1994 and at Allstate as Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer, his knowledge of and extensive experiences in insurance, his skills in financial and audit matters, and his experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify him to serve as a director of 3M.
Director since 2000.





 
 Robert S. Morrison, 67, Retired Vice Chairman of PepsiCo, Inc., a processor of packaged foods and beverages. Mr. Morrison served as
Vice Chairman of PepsiCo, Inc. from 2001 to February 2003. From 1997 until the 2001 merger with PepsiCo, Mr. Morrison was Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Quaker Oats Company. Mr. Morrison served in various
leadership roles at Kraft Foods, Inc, from 1983 to 1997, including its Chief Executive Officer from 1994-1997. From June 30 to December 6, 2005, Mr. Morrison served as interim Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of 3M
Company. Mr. Morrison is on the boards of the following public companies in addition to 3M: Aon Corporation and Illinois Tool Works Inc. In addition, Mr. Morrison formerly served on the board of The Tribune Company. Mr. Morrison's
Masters of Business Administration from the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, his leadership roles and experiences at Kraft Foods, The Quaker Oats Company, and PepsiCo., his knowledge of and extensive experiences in managing global consumer
goods companies, his skills in business and financial matters, and his experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify him to serve as a director of 3M.
Director since 2002.




24



 
Table of Contents















 
 Aulana L. Peters, 68, Retired Partner, Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP. Mrs. Peters is a retired partner of the law firm of Gibson,
Dunn & Crutcher where she was a partner from 1980 to 1984 and 1988 to 2000. From 1984 to 1988, she served as a Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission. From January 2001 to April 2002, Mrs. Peters served as a member of
the Public Oversight Board ("POB") of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Mrs. Peters has also served as a member of the Steering Committee for Financial Accounting Standards Board's Financial Reporting Project and a member
of the POB's Blue Ribbon Panel on Audit Effectiveness. Currently, Mrs. Peters serves on the U.S. Comptroller General's Accountability Advisory Panel and is a member of the International Public Interest Oversight Board which oversees the standard
setting process of the International Federation of Accountants for auditing, assurance, independence, and ethics standards. Mrs. Peters is on the boards of the following public companies in addition to 3M: Deere & Company and Northrop
Grumman Corporation. In addition, Mrs. Peters formerly served on the board of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. Mrs. Peters' law degree from the University of Southern California, her experiences as a partner at Gibson,
Dunn & Crutcher and as a Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission, her extensive experience and skills in accounting and audit matters and her experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify her to serve
as a director of 3M.
Director since 1990.





 
 Robert J. Ulrich, 66, Retired Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Target Corporation, an operator of large-format general
merchandise and food discount stores. Mr. Ulrich began his retailing career as a merchandising trainee in Target's department store division (Dayton Hudson) in 1967 and advanced through various management positions. He
became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Target Stores in 1987 and was elected Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Target Corporation in 1994. Mr. Ulrich retired as Target's Chief Executive Officer on May 1, 2008, and retired as
Chairman of the Board on January 31, 2009. In addition, Mr. Ulrich formerly served on the board of YUM! Brands, Inc. Mr. Ulrich's bachelor of arts degree from the University of Minnesota, his leadership roles and experiences at
Dayton Hudson and Target Corporation, his knowledge of and extensive experiences in retailing and in building Target Stores into the second-largest retailer in the United States, his skills in business and financial matters, and his experiences as a
director at the public companies listed above, qualify him to serve as a director of 3M.
Director since 2008.




25




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
 PROPOSAL NO. 2         RATIFICATION OF THE APPOINTMENT OF  INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     
        The Audit Committee has appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm to audit the
Company's consolidated financial statements for the year ending December 31, 2010. If the stockholders do not ratify the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Audit Committee will
reconsider the selection. 
        During
2009, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP served as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm and also provided certain tax and other audit-related services. For a
description of
those services and the fees paid, see section entitled "Fees of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm." 
        Representatives
of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are expected to attend the Annual Meeting where they will be available to respond to questions and, if they desire, to make a
statement. 
 Recommendation of the Audit Committee  
        The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors recommends a vote "FOR" the ratification of the appointment of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2010. Proxies solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted "FOR" ratification unless a
contrary vote is specified.
 
 
 PROPOSAL NO. 3         APPROVAL OF THE AMENDED 2008 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AND APPROVAL OF THE  EXPANDED PERFORMANCE CRITERIA AVAILABLE UNDER THE 2008 LONG-TERM  INCENTIVE
PLAN     
        The 3M 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "2008 Plan") was adopted by the Board of Directors in February 2008 and approved
by 3M's stockholders at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 13, 2008. As part of this approval, 3M's stockholders authorized the issuance or delivery of 35,000,000 shares of 3M common
stock pursuant to awards granted under the 2008 Plan. At their meetings in February 2010, the Compensation Committee recommended and the Board of Directors approved, subject to stockholder approval at
the Annual Meeting, an amendment to the 2008 Plan that would make the following changes: 


•Increase the number of shares authorized for issuance or delivery pursuant to awards granted under the 2008 Plan by
29,000,000 shares;   
•Revise the rate at which full value awards (primarily restricted stock and restricted stock units) are counted for
purposes of the 2008 Plan's authorized share limit;   
•Expand the available performance criteria for measuring the performance of the Company in connection with awards of
Performance Units or Performance Shares to the Company's employees; and   
•Prohibit the repricing of outstanding stock options or stock appreciation rights granted under the 2008 Plan to reduce the
exercise or grant price of such awards, or other transactions with a similar effect, without the prior approval of the Company's stockholders. 

In
addition to the above-described changes made by this amendment, the Company is also requesting that 3M's stockholders approve the expanded performance criteria available for the awards of
Performance Units or Performance Shares made under the 2008 Plan. 
26



 
Table of Contents
 Summary of the Long-Term Incentive Plan  
        The following is only a summary of the material terms of the 2008 Plan, as amended, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to
the full plan document for the Plan, which is attached as Appendix A to this proxy statement.  


1.What are the purposes of the Long-Term Incentive Plan? — The purposes of the
2008 Plan are to help 3M attract, retain, and motivate outstanding employees to increase shareholder value by contributing to the long-term growth and success of its business; to more
closely align the financial interests of these employees with those of 3M's other stockholders by linking a significant portion of their compensation to the performance of the Company and its stock
price; to encourage employees to acquire an equity stake in the Company; to help 3M attract and retain well-qualified individuals to serve as nonemployee members of its Board of Directors;
and to promote the alignment of interests of these nonemployee directors with those of 3M's other shareholders by providing all or a portion of their compensation for serving as directors in the form
of 3M common stock.
2.Who is eligible to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan? —
Participation in the 2008 Plan is limited to those employees of the Company and affiliated entities who are selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Nonemployee members of
3M's Board of Directors (9 as of February 26, 2010) are also eligible to participate in and receive stock awards under the 2008 Plan. It is anticipated that approximately 5,000 employees will
be eligible to receive equity awards and approximately 110 employees will be eligible to receive Performance Shares or Performance Units under the 2008 Plan, including all of the Named Executive
Officers.
3.How many shares are available for awards? — The amendment that stockholders are being
asked to approve would increase the total number of shares of 3M common stock that may be issued or delivered pursuant to awards granted under the 2008 Plan from 35,000,000 to 64,000,000. As of
December 31, 2009, approximately 15,500,000 shares remained available for new awards under the 2008 Plan. However, after the 2010 annual awards of stock options, restricted stock units, and
stock appreciation rights made to eligible employees in February, the number of remaining available shares has declined to less than 5,000,000 shares. If the amendment is approved by stockholders, the
remaining shares available for future awards would increase to approximately 34,000,000. These available shares would represent approximately 5 percent of 3M's outstanding shares as of
January 31, 2010. The necessary shares will be made available at the discretion of the Board of Directors from authorized but unissued shares, treasury shares, or shares reacquired by the
Company under corporate repurchase programs. As of February 26, 2010, the fair market value of a share of 3M common stock (as determined under the Plan's definition of such term) was $80.15.
4.How does the Long-Term Incentive Plan count full value awards against the shares available for issuance or delivery, and
when may shares previously committed for awards be made available again for the issuance of new awards? — For purposes of the 2008 Plan, full value awards
are defined as awards denominated in shares of 3M common stock other than stock options and stock appreciation rights. Full value awards with grant dates prior to May 11, 2010, were counted
against the total number of shares available for issuance or delivery as 3.38 shares for every one share covered by such award. Under the amendment that stockholders are being asked to approve, full
value awards with grant dates of May 11, 2010, or later will be counted against the total number of shares available for issuance or delivery as 2.87 shares for every one share covered by such
award. In general, when an award made under the 2008 Plan (or one of the predecessor plans to the 2008 Plan) expires or is cancelled, forfeited, or otherwise terminated without the issuance of shares
of 3M common stock, or when an award made under 

27



 
Table of Contents


the
2008 Plan (or one of the predecessor plans) and denominated in shares of 3M common stock is paid in cash or consideration other than common stock, the shares previously counted against the limit
on shares available for issuance or delivery under the 2008 Plan (or against the limit on shares available for issuance or delivery under such predecessor plan) are added back to the shares available
for future awards under the 2008 Plan.  


5.Who administers the Long-Term Incentive Plan? — The Compensation Committee
administers the 2008 Plan. The Committee has full power and authority to select the participants, interpret the plan document, continue, accelerate or suspend the exercisability or vesting of an
award, and adopt such rules and procedures as it deems necessary for the proper administration of the 2008 Plan. This power and authority includes making any amendments of or modifications to the 2008
Plan which in the Committee's opinion are necessary or desirable to make such Plan comply with or accommodate the tax, securities, and other laws or regulations of any country in which the Company or
its affiliated entities operate. The Committee may delegate any of its administrative responsibilities in connection with the 2008 Plan to one or more officers of the Company, except as provided by
law.
6.What types of awards may be granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan?



Incentive
Stock Options — Incentive stock options are options to purchase shares of 3M common stock that qualify for favorable income tax treatment
under U.S. income tax laws. Each incentive stock option granted under the 2008 Plan will have a purchase price equal to 100 percent of the fair market value of a share of 3M common stock on the
grant date. Each incentive stock option granted under the 2008 Plan will have a term of 10 years, and will become exercisable at the time or times established by the Compensation Committee. 
Nonqualified
Stock Options — Nonqualified stock options are options to purchase shares of 3M common stock that do not qualify for favorable tax
treatment under U.S. income tax laws. Each nonqualified stock option granted under the 2008 Plan will have a purchase price equal to no less than 100 percent of the fair market value of a share
of 3M common stock on the grant date. Nonqualified stock options granted under the 2008 Plan will become exercisable and will expire at such time or times as shall be established by the Compensation
Committee. However, no nonqualified stock option will expire later than 10 years after the grant date (except that the Compensation Committee may extend the exercise period for nonqualified
stock options granted to participants in any country or countries for an additional period of up to one year if and to the extent necessary to prevent adverse tax consequences to such participants
under the laws of such country). 
Progressive
Stock Options — Progressive stock options are additional nonqualified stock options that the Compensation Committee may grant to certain
participants who exercise other 3M nonqualified stock options granted under the 1997 or 2002 Management Stock Ownership Programs of the Company, and who make payment of all or part of the purchase
price and withholding taxes, if any, in shares of the Company's common stock. The number of shares subject to each progressive stock option would be equal to the number of shares of 3M common stock
utilized by the participant to effect payment of the purchase price and withholding taxes, if any, for such other nonqualified stock option. Each progressive stock option granted under the 2008 Plan
will have a purchase price equal to 100 percent of the fair market value of a share of 3M common stock on the date of exercise of the other nonqualified stock option, which will be the grant
date of such progressive stock option. Each progressive stock option granted under the 2008 Plan will become exercisable six months after the grant date, and will expire at the same time the other
nonqualified stock option exercised by the participant would have expired. Progressive stock options will not be granted with respect to the exercise of nonqualified stock options granted under the
2008 Plan or the 2005 


28



 
Table of Contents



Management
Stock Ownership Program. When the Committee decided in 2005 to eliminate the opportunity to obtain new progressive stock options upon the exercise of 3M nonqualified stock options, it did
so on a prospective basis only. As a result, eligible participants who exercise nonqualified stock options granted prior to the effective date of such decision may still qualify to receive new
progressive stock options. 
Stock
Appreciation Rights — A stock appreciation right is the right of a participant to receive a payment in cash or shares of 3M common stock based on
the increase in value of shares of 3M common stock between the grant date and the date it is exercised by the participant. A stock appreciation right will be exercisable during the period determined
by the Compensation Committee, but in no event will this period be longer than 10 years from the grant date. Each stock appreciation right will become exercisable at the time or times
determined by the Compensation Committee. 
Restricted
Stock — Restricted stock is actual shares of 3M common stock granted to a participant subject to certain conditions established by the
Compensation Committee. Until these conditions are satisfied by the participant or waived by the Committee, (1) the participant may not transfer or dispose of the restricted stock, and
(2) the participant has the rights and privileges of a stockholder, including the right to vote the shares and receive dividends. One of these conditions will be a requirement that the
participant remain employed by the Company or an affiliated entity until the restricted stock becomes vested. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, if the participant's employment with the
Company or an affiliated entity ends before the restricted stock has vested (or before any of the other conditions have been satisfied), the shares are forfeited. Once the conditions have been
satisfied or waived and the restricted stock has vested, the participant will become entitled to receive the shares of 3M common stock free from any restrictions on transfer or sale, except as
otherwise provided by law. 
Restricted
Stock Units — Restricted stock units confer upon a participant the right to receive in the future a specified number of shares of 3M common
stock or an amount in cash based on the fair market value of a specified number of shares of 3M common stock, and subject to certain conditions established by the Compensation Committee. Unlike
restricted stock, no actual shares of 3M common stock are created or set aside for a participant upon the grant of restricted stock units and the participant generally does not have the rights and
privileges of a stockholder unless and until the actual shares underlying the restricted stock units are delivered to the participant after the conditions have been satisfied. However, dividend
equivalents on the restricted stock units may be either currently paid to the participant in cash or shares or withheld by the Company for the participant's account and either maintained in cash to be
paid upon the expiration of the restricted period of the units or reinvested in additional restricted stock units, as determined by the Compensation Committee. One of the conditions applicable to each
restricted stock unit will be a requirement that the participant remain employed by the Company or an affiliated entity until the restricted stock unit becomes vested. If the participant's employment
with the Company or an affiliated entity ends (for any reason other than retirement, total disability, or death) before the restricted stock unit has vested (or before any of the other conditions have
been satisfied), the unit is forfeited. Once the conditions have been satisfied or waived and the restricted stock units have vested, the participant will be entitled to receive the specified number
of shares of 3M common stock or cash in an amount equal to the value of the specified number of shares of 3M common stock and free from any restrictions on their transfer or sale. 
Performance
Shares — Performance shares confer upon a participant the right to receive a number of shares of 3M common stock based on the performance of
the Company during a performance period of three years (or such other period determined by the Committee, in its 


29



 
Table of Contents



discretion),
as measured by certain performance criteria selected by the Compensation Committee. 
Performance
Units — Performance units confer upon a participant the right to receive an amount of cash or a number of shares of 3M common stock based on
the performance of the Company during a performance period of three years (or such other period determined by the
Committee, in its discretion), as measured by certain performance criteria selected by the Compensation Committee. 
Other
Stock Awards — The 2008 Plan authorizes the Compensation Committee to make additional awards of 3M common stock besides those described above,
subject to such terms and conditions as it may determine in its sole discretion.  


7.Does the Long-Term Incentive Plan limit the awards that may be granted to individual
participants? — Yes. No participant may be granted stock options and stock appreciation rights under the 2008 Plan with respect to more than 1,000,000 shares
of 3M common stock in any calendar year. No participant may receive cash, vested shares of 3M common stock or other property as a result of awards granted under the 2008 Plan, other than stock options
and stock appreciation rights, having a value exceeding $30,000,000 in any calendar year.
8.Are there any restrictions on transferring awards granted under the Long-Term Incentive
Plan? — With a limited exception described below, the 2008 Plan prohibits the transfer, assignment, or pledge of any award granted under the Plan. However,
in the event of the death of a participant who holds unexercised options or stock appreciation rights, the 2008 Plan permits such options or rights to be exercised within two years following the date
of death (but not beyond the original expiration date) by the participant's estate or by a person who acquired the right to exercise such options or rights by reason of the death of the participant. 



The
2008 Plan authorizes the Compensation Committee, in its sole discretion, to permit certain participants to transfer ownership of all or any portion of the nonqualified stock options granted to
them under the 2008 Plan to their immediate family members, a trust for the exclusive benefit of such immediate family members, or a partnership in which immediate family members are the only
partners. Individuals who elect to transfer ownership of such nonqualified stock options may not receive any consideration for making such transfer, and they remain responsible for the payment of all
withholding taxes due upon exercise of the transferred options. Following transfer, any such options remain subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer. 


9.Does the Long-Term Incentive Plan permit the repricing of outstanding stock options and stock appreciation
rights? — Since inception, the 2008 Plan has both: (a) provided that stock options and stock appreciation rights may not be granted with exercise
prices or grant prices less than 100 percent of the fair market value of a share of 3M common stock on the grant date, and (b) prohibited any amendment of the 2008 Plan that would permit
the granting of stock options or stock appreciation rights with prices lower than 100 percent of fair market value on the grant date without prior stockholder approval. The amendment that
stockholders are being asked to approve would strengthen these existing provisions by prohibiting, without prior stockholder approval: (x) the repricing of outstanding stock options and stock
appreciation rights granted under the 2008 Plan to reduce their exercise or grant prices, and (y) the cancellation of outstanding stock options and stock appreciation rights granted under the
2008 Plan in exchange for cash, other stock awards, or replacement stock options and stock appreciation rights with exercise or grant prices that are less than the exercise or grant prices of the
cancelled stock options or stock appreciation rights. 

30








 










Table of Contents 


10.What are the Federal income tax consequences of awards under the Long-Term Incentive
Plan? — The following discussion is intended to provide only a general outline of the Federal income tax consequences of participation in the 2008 Plan and
the receipt of awards thereunder by participants subject to U.S. taxes. It does not address any other taxes imposed by the United States or any state or political subdivision thereof, or the tax
consequences applicable to participants who are not subject to U.S. taxes. 



Incentive
Stock Options — Although the Compensation Committee does not intend to use such authority at the present time, the 2008 Plan does authorize
the granting of incentive stock options (ISOs) that meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. A participant will not recognize taxable income and
the Company will not be entitled to a tax deduction upon the grant or exercise of an ISO. A participant who exercises an ISO does not recognize ordinary income at the time of exercise, and the Company
is not entitled to a tax
deduction. Upon the sale of shares obtained by exercising an ISO after the shares have been held more than one year (or, if later, more than two years after the date the ISO was granted), the excess
of the sale price over the purchase price is taxed as long-term capital gain. If the shares are sold within one year of the date of exercise (or, if later, within two years after the date
the ISO was granted), the excess of the fair market value of the shares on the date of exercise (or sale proceeds if less) over the purchase price is taxed as ordinary income, and the Company gets a
tax deduction for this amount. The remaining gain, if any, is taxed as a capital gain, which will be a short-term capital gain if the shares have not been held for more than one year.
Unless the shares obtained by exercising an ISO are sold within the same calendar year as they are purchased, the exercise of such option will increase the participant's income for purposes of the
alternative minimum tax. The amount of income will equal the amount by which the fair market value of the shares purchased as of the date of exercise exceeds the exercise price paid for such shares.
If a participant is required to pay alternative minimum tax as a result of exercising an ISO, the amount paid can be carried over and credited against the participant's regular income tax liability in
subsequent years. 
Nonqualified
Stock Options — A participant will not recognize taxable income and the Company will not be entitled to a tax deduction upon the grant of a
nonqualified stock option. A participant who exercises a nonqualified stock option recognizes taxable ordinary income in the year the option is exercised in an amount equal to the excess of the fair
market value of the shares purchased on the exercise date over the purchase price. The Company is entitled to a tax deduction in an amount equal to the ordinary income recognized by the participant.
The excess of the proceeds from any subsequent sale of the shares purchased over the fair market value on the date of exercise is taxed as long-term capital gain if the shares are held
more than one year and as short-term capital gain if held one year or less. 
Restricted
Stock and Restricted Stock Units — A participant normally will not recognize taxable income and the Company will not be entitled to a tax
deduction upon the grant of shares of restricted stock or restricted stock units. When the shares or units vest, the participant will recognize taxable ordinary income in an amount equal to the fair
market value of the shares at that time less the amount, if any, paid for the shares, and the Company will be entitled at that time to a deduction in the same amount, except to the extent
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code limits the amount of the deduction. However, a participant may elect (within 30 days of the date of grant) to recognize taxable ordinary
income in the year the shares of restricted stock are granted in an amount equal to the excess of their fair market value at the grant date, determined without regard to the restrictions, over the
amount, if any, paid for the shares. In that event, the Company will be entitled to a deduction in such year in the same amount, except to the extent Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code
limits the amount of the deduction. Any gain or loss realized by the participant upon the subsequent disposition of 


31



 
Table of Contents



the
shares will be taxed as short- or long-term capital gain but will not result in any further deduction for the Company. 
Stock
Appreciation Rights — A participant will not recognize taxable income and the Company will not be entitled to a tax deduction upon the grant of a
stock appreciation right. A participant who exercises a stock appreciation right recognizes taxable ordinary income in the year the right is exercised in an amount equal to the cash or the fair market
value of the shares of 3M common stock received at that time, and the Company will be entitled at that time to a deduction in the same amount. If shares are received, the excess of the proceeds from
any subsequent sale of the shares of 3M common stock received over their fair market value on the date of exercise is treated as long-term capital gain if the shares are held more than one
year and as short-term capital gain if held one year or less. 
Performance
Units and Performance Shares — A participant will recognize taxable ordinary income in the year payment is received in an amount equal to
the cash or the fair market value of the shares of 3M common stock received following completion of the respective performance period for the performance units or performance shares, respectively, and
(assuming that the payment is considered qualified performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code to the extent such Section would otherwise limit the
Company's deduction therefor) the Company will be entitled at that time to a deduction in the same amount.  


11.How long will the Long-Term Incentive Plan remain in effect, and may it be
changed? — The 2008 Plan became effective on May 13, 2008, and it will expire on the tenth anniversary of the effective date. 3M's Board of Directors
may amend or terminate the 2008 Plan at any time, except that no amendment may be made without the prior approval of 3M stockholders which would (a) increase the number of shares of 3M common
stock available for issuance or delivery under the Plan, (b) permit the granting of awards with purchase prices lower than those specified in Q & A 6 above, or (c) be a material
amendment for which stockholder approval is required by applicable law, regulation, or stock exchange rule.
12.When would adjustments be made in the number of shares available for awards under the Plan and the terms and conditions of
outstanding awards? — If the Company's outstanding shares of common stock are changed by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, combination or
reclassification of shares, recapitalization, merger or other similar event, the Compensation Committee would make appropriate adjustments in the maximum number or kind of securities that may be
issued under the 2008 Plan and in the terms of certain outstanding awards, including the number of shares subject to awards and the exercise prices or other stock price provisions of awards. The
Committee may also make appropriate adjustments in the terms of awards assumed or issued as replacements for outstanding awards in connection with acquisitions and other corporate transactions.
13.What happens if there is a Change in Control? — The 2008 Plan provides for the
acceleration of vesting and other rights in and to awards under the 2008 Plan in the event of a "change in control." The 2008 Plan provides that a "change in control" is deemed to occur only if a
"change in the ownership" or a "change in effective control" and/or a "change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of the Company has taken place (as those terms are defined in
Treasury Regulations §1.409A-3(i)(5) or such other regulation or guidance issued under Section 409A of the Code. 



The
impact of a "change in control" upon the vesting or acceleration of other rights in and to an employee's awards granted under the 2008 Plan varies depending on whether (a) the awards were
granted prior to February 9, 2010, and (b) the individuals or entities acquiring control of 


32



 
Table of Contents


the
Company assume or otherwise provide for the continuation of such awards, as indicated in the following table: 


















 
 
 
 
Awards with a grant date on or after February 9, 2010 


 
 
Awards with a grant
date prior to
February 9, 2010
 
Individuals or entities
acquiring control of the
Company do assume or
otherwise provide for the
continuation of such
awards
 
Individuals or entities
acquiring control of the
Company do not assume or
otherwise provide for the
continuation of such
awards


 




Options and Stock Appreciation Rights
 
 Immediately vested and remain exercisable for a minimum of six months following the "change in control" (but not beyond the original expiration date)
 
 Immediately vested and remain exercisable for a minimum of six months (but not beyond the original expiration date) only in the event the employee's employment is terminated without cause or the employee resigns for good
reason within eighteen months following the "change in control"
 
 Immediately vested and remain exercisable for a minimum of six months following the "change in control" (but not beyond the original expiration date)



Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units and Other Stock Awards
 
 Immediately vested upon the "change in control"
 
 Immediately vested only in the event the employee's employment is terminated without cause or the employee resigns for good reason within eighteen months following the "change in control"
 
 Immediately vested upon the "change in control"






 Performance Units and Performance Shares
 
 All performance periods end and the Company immediately pays out the value of all outstanding units and shares based on one of several valuation methods
 
 Performance periods end and the Company immediately pays out the value of all outstanding units and shares based on one of several valuation methods only with respect to an employee whose employment is terminated
without cause or who resigns for good reason within eighteen months following the "change in control"
 
 n/a







The
2008 Plan does not provide for the payment of tax gross-ups with respect to any excise taxes payable by participants with respect to their awards granted under the Plan in the event of
a "change in control" of the Company.  


14.What amounts will individuals receive under the Long-Term Incentive Plan? —  The number or size of the awards, if any, which an individual may receive under the
2008 Plan is at the discretion of the Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors and
therefore cannot be determined in advance. Please see Question 7 for a description of the Plan's limitations on the size of awards that may be granted to individual participants. The following
table reflects the stock option, restricted stock unit, stock appreciation right and other stock awards made to participants under the 2008 Plan during 2009 and since the Plan's inception: 

33



 
Table of Contents
 Stock Awards under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan  



































 
 


 
 
During 2009
 
Since Inception
(through February 26, 2010)
 


 
 


Name and Position
 
Stock
Options
 
Restricted
Stock Units
 
Stock
Appreciation
Rights
 
Other
Stock
Awards
 
Stock
Options
 
Restricted
Stock Units
 
Stock
Appreciation
Rights
 
Other
Stock
Awards
 


 
 


 



 George W. Buckley
Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer
 
 
289,044
 
 
78,366
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
737,975
 
 
129,896
 
 
0
 
 
0
 


 
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 
 
81,464
 
 
17,964
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
202,673
 
 
31,938
 
 
0
 
 
0
 


 
 


 



 Inge G. Thulin
Executive Vice President, International Operations
 
 
65,657
 
 
12,937
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
166,615
 
 
23,100
 
 
0
 
 
0
 


 
 


 Jean Lobey
Executive Vice President,
Safety, Security and Protection Services Business
 
 
58,772
 
 
12,937
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
146,566
 
 
23,100
 
 
0
 
 
0
 


 
 


 



 Bradley T. Sauer
Executive Vice President,
Health Care Business
 
 
73,431
 
 
12,937
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
169,105
 
 
23,100
 
 
0
 
 
0
 


 
 


 All Current Executive Officers
 
 
1,001,144
 
 
260,364
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
2,635,712
 
 
473,167
 
 
0
 
 
0
 


 
 


 



 All Current Directors Who Are Not Executive Officers
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
21,722
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
43,444
 


 
 


 All Employees
(Other Than Current Executive Officers)
 
 
5,721,371
 
 
1,444,381
 
 
34,984
 
 
0
 
 
15,089,783
 
 
3,516,365
 
 
121,911
 
 
0
 


 
 






15.Is the Long-Term Incentive Plan intended to comply with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Internal
Revenue Code? — The 2008 Plan is intended to comply with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, so that the Company is able
to deduct for Federal income tax purposes payments of performance-based long-term incentive compensation made to its Chief Executive Officer and each other Named Executive Officer (whose
compensation is reported in the Summary Compensation Table of the proxy for the respective years by reason of being among the three most highly compensated officers for that year other than the Chief
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer ("Covered Employees")). In general, Section 162(m) imposes a $1 million limit on the amount of compensation paid to each of a
corporation's Covered Employees that may be deducted for Federal income tax purposes. This limit does not apply to compensation that is considered "performance-based" for purposes of
Section 162(m). One of the conditions for compensation to be considered "performance-based" under Section 162(m) requires that the material terms under which such compensation will be
paid, including the performance criteria, be disclosed to and approved by stockholders. Thus, the Company is submitting this proposal for the purpose of enabling its stockholders to approve the
material terms of these performance criteria.
16.What types of "performance-based" compensation, within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, would be
paid under the Long-Term Incentive Plan? — The Company expects to pay two types of performance-based compensation under the 2008 Plan to the
Covered Employees. Stock options and stock appreciation rights are intended to qualify as "performance-based" compensation for purposes of Section 162(m) because the amount of compensation
ultimately received by an individual depends entirely on the amount by which 3M common stock increases in value after the grant date of each option or right. Performance 

34



 
Table of Contents


shares
and performance units are intended to qualify as "performance-based" compensation for purposes of Section 162(m) because the amount of compensation ultimately received by an individual
depends entirely on 3M's attainment of objective performance goals selected by the Compensation Committee at the beginning of each performance period under the Plan, and are based on an objective
formula for calculating the amounts payable as a result of such performance.  


17.Which employees would be eligible to receive "performance-based" compensation under the Long-Term Incentive
Plan? — While Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code applies only to the compensation paid to 3M's Covered Employees, the Committee currently
intends to provide both types of "performance-based" compensation described above to all of the Company's executives (approximately 110 as of December 31, 2009).
18.What are the performance criteria from which the Committee may select the objective performance goals for awards of performance
units and performance shares? — The performance criteria originally available to the Compensation Committee under the Plan for awards of performance units
and performance shares include return on capital employed, return on assets or net assets, net sales, sales growth, cash flow, earnings per share or improvement in earnings per share, return on
equity, stock price, gross margin, operating margin, total shareholder return, economic value added, economic profit or improvement in economic profit, earnings before interest and taxes, EBITDA,
operating income or improvement in operating income, improvements in certain asset or financial measures, reductions in certain asset or cost areas, net income or variations of net income in varying
time periods, and comparisons with other peer companies or industry groups or classifications with regard to one or more of these criteria. The amendment that stockholders are being asked to approve
would expand the available performance criteria to include sales or sales growth from new products, market share, cash flow conversion, gross income, operating income, stockholders' equity, retained
earnings, the ratio of debt to equity or to EBITDA, reductions in debt, employee diversity, employee engagement or satisfaction, and customer satisfaction. These criteria may apply either to the
Company as a whole or to any of its business segments, and may be measured on the basis of either the amount of a particular item during the performance period or on increases or decreases in the
amount of such item during the performance period. Among other reasons, the Company is submitting this proposal for the purpose of enabling its stockholders to approve the expanded performance
criteria available under the 2008 Plan, as amended. 


 Recommendation of the Board  

        The Board of Directors recommends a vote "FOR" the proposal to approve the amended 2008 3M
Long-Term Incentive Plan, including an increase in the number of shares of common stock authorized for issuance under such Plan, and to approve the expanded Performance Criteria available
under such Plan. Proxies solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted "FOR" this proposal unless a contrary vote is specified.
35




 











Table of Contents 
 Equity Compensation Plans Information  
        Information as of December 31, 2009, concerning compensation plans under which the Company's equity securities are authorized
for issuance is as follows: 
 Equity Compensation Plans Information (1)  





















 
 
A
 
B
 
C
 


Plan Category



 
Number of securities to be
issued upon exercise of
outstanding options,
warrants and rights 
 
Weighted-average
exercise price of
outstanding options,
warrants and rights 
 
Number of securities
remaining available for
future issuance under
equity compensation
plans (excluding
securities reflected
in column (A) 
 


 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 Stock options
 
 
 74,268,165
 
 $
72.39
 
 
 —
 


 
 Restricted stock units
 
 
 4,346,155
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 
 Non-employee director deferred stock units
 
 
 193,710
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 Total
 
 
 78,808,030
 
 $
72.39
 
 
 15,507,162
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 Employee stock purchase plan
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 5,659,939
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Subtotal
 
 
 78,808,030
 
 $
72.39
 
 
 21,167,101
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 
 78,808,030
 
 $
72.39
 
 
 21,167,101
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)In
column B, the weighted-average exercise price is only applicable to stock options. In column C, the number of securities remaining
available for future issuance for stock options, restricted stock units, and stock awards for non-employee directors is approved in total and not individually with respect to these items. 

 
 
 PROPOSAL NO. 4         STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL ON SPECIAL MEETINGS     
        3M has received a stockholder proposal from Nick Rossi, P.O. Box 249, Boonville, CA 95415-0249, the owner of
1,000 shares (the "Proponent"). The
Proponent has requested that the Company include the following proposal and supporting statement (in italics) in its proxy statement for the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders. The proposal may be voted on at the Annual Meeting only if properly presented by the Proponent or the Proponent's qualified representative. For the reasons set forth following
the Proponent's statement, your Board of Directors recommends that you vote "AGAINST" this proposal. 
        RESOLVED, Shareowners ask our board to take the steps necessary to amend our bylaws and each appropriate governing document to give holders of 10% of our
outstanding common stock (or the lowest percentage allowed by law above 10%) the power to call a special shareowner meeting. This includes that a large number of small shareowners can combine their
holdings to equal the above 10% of holders. This includes that such bylaw and/or charter text will not have any exception or exclusion conditions (to the fullest extent permitted by state law) that
apply only to shareowners but not to management and/or the board.
        A special meeting allows shareowners to vote on important matters, such as electing new directors, that can arise between annual meetings. If shareowners cannot
call a special meeting investor returns  
36



 
Table of Contents

 may suffer. Shareowners should have the ability to call a special meeting when a matter merits prompt attention. This proposal does not impact our board's current power to call a special
meeting.
        This proposal topic won more than 60%-support the following companies in 2009: CVS Caremark (CVS), Sprint Nextel (S), Safeway (SWY) and Motorola (MOT).William
Steiner and Nick Rossi sponsored these proposals.
        The merits of this Special Shareowner Meetings proposal should also be considered in the context of the need for improvements in our company's 2009 reported
corporate governance status:
        The Corporate Library www.thecorporatelibrary.com, an independent investment research firm, rated our company "High Concern" in
Executive Pay. Our CEO George Buckley received $7.3 million in stock options and performance shares. This raised concerns over the link between executive pay and company performance since small
increases in the company's share price can result in large financial awards. There could be payments of $28 million regarding Mr. Buckley upon his death, $21 million upon his
disability and $30 million upon his resignation.
        Vance Coffman and James Farrell were each designated as "Flagged (Problem) Directors" by The Corporate Library: Mr. Coffman due to involvement with
Bristol-Myers and a SEC lawsuit charging
substantial accounting fraud and Mr. Farrell due to involvement with UAL Corporation prior to its bankruptcy.
        Aulana Peters, on our executive pay committee, was also on the Merrill Lynch executive pay committee as Merrill's Stanley O'Neal exited with $161 million
after he acquired subprime assets that contributed to $40 billion in write-downs. Ms. Peters was also on the D-rated boards (by The Corporate Library) of Northrop Grumman
(NOC) and Deere (DE) and receive our most against-votes. Vance Coffman was also on this same executive pay committee and served on the D-rated boards of Amgen (AMGN) and Deere
(DE).
        We had no shareholder right to cumulative voting, to act by written consent or an independent board chairman. Shareholder proposals addressing these topics have
received majority votes at other companies and would be excellent topics for our next annual meeting.
        The above concerns show there is need for improvement. Please encourage our board to respond positively to this proposal: Special Shareowner
Meetings — Yes on 4.
 Board's Statement Opposing the Proposal  
        After careful consideration, and for the reasons set forth below, the Board believes that the proposal to ask our Board to take the
steps necessary to permit holders of 10 percent of our outstanding common stock to call special stockholder meetings, subject to the conditions specified in the proposal, is not in the best
interests of 3M or its stockholders for the following reasons: 


1.Stockholders
already have a meaningful right to call a special meeting. The Company's Bylaws permit the holders of 25 percent of 3M's outstanding
stock to call a special stockholder meeting upon written request to the Board. The Board believes that giving stockholders owning 25 percent of the Company's outstanding stock the ability to
call special stockholder meetings strikes the appropriate balance between giving stockholders the ability to call special meetings to vote on important matters that arise between Annual Meetings
and protecting the resources of the Company and interests of all stockholders. Lowering the threshold to 10 percent could force the Company to expend a great deal
of time and money on a special meeting, as described below, even if up to 90 percent of the Company's stockholders do not want a special meeting.
2.Given
the size of the Company and the number of its stockholders, convening a meeting of stockholders is a significant undertaking that requires a
substantial commitment of time and 

37



 
Table of Contents


financial
resources. The Company must pay to prepare, print, and distribute legal disclosure documents to 975,600 stockholders; solicit proxies; and tabulate votes. The costs of such special meetings
are estimated to be $1,750,000. The board and management must also divert time from the business to prepare for and conduct the meeting. Because of these burdens and costs to a company, special
stockholder meetings should be extraordinary events that occur only when a substantial percentage of the stockholders agree there are extremely pressing matters that must be addressed before the next
Annual Meeting. The current provision of the Bylaws allows for stockholders to call a special meeting when such an extraordinary event arises, without enabling a small minority of stockholders to call
meetings more frequently than necessary. We believe that if less than 25 percent of the stockholders want a special meeting, this demonstrates that the need for a special meeting is not so
great as to warrant disrupting the conduct of 3M's business and imposing unnecessary costs on the Company and its stockholders. Therefore, we believe it is unnecessary and would be damaging to the
Company and its stockholders to lower the current threshold and give holders of only 10 percent of our outstanding stock the ability to call special meetings.  


3.Special
meetings could also be abused by special interest stockholder groups. The proposal with its low 10 percent ownership requirement could subject
the Company to constant disruption from special interest stockholder groups with an agenda not in the best interests of the Company or the majority of stockholders. Currently, special meetings of
stockholders may be called by (i) a majority of the board of directors or the chairman of the board, or (ii) the holders of 25 percent of 3M's outstanding stock upon written
request to the Board. Each director has a fiduciary duty to represent all stockholders when determining whether a matter is so pressing that it must be addressed at a special meeting. By way of
contrast, stockholders do not have any fiduciary obligations to the company or other stockholders. Stockholders can be self-interested in ways that directors, bound by the duties of care
and loyalty, cannot be. The proposal would permit a small group of stockholders who have a special interest to use the extraordinary measure of a special meeting to serve their narrow
self-interest. For example, event-driven hedge funds could use special meetings to disrupt the Company's business or to facilitate their own short-term focused exit strategies.
Also, would-be acquirers who seek to take over the Company for an inadequate price could use special meetings to avoid negotiating with the Board, which has the responsibility to protect
the interests of all stockholders. In fact, if this proposal were implemented, several stockholders would have the ability to call a special meeting at their sole discretion, at any time, with no duty
to act other than in their own interests. 

        The
statement accompanying the proposal contains a number of inflammatory statements regarding our directors. The Board has chosen not to waste additional resources by responding to
these statements. 
 Recommendation of the Board  
        The Board of Directors recommends a vote "AGAINST" this proposal for the reasons discussed above. Proxies
solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted "AGAINST" this proposal unless a stockholder indicates otherwise in voting the proxy.
38




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  INFORMATION ON STOCK OWNERSHIP OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS     
        The following table includes all 3M stock-based holdings, as of February 26, 2010, of the directors and the Named Executive
Officers set forth in the Summary Compensation Table, and the directors and executive officers as a group. 
 
 
  Common Stock and Total Stock-Based Holdings     




















 
 


Name and Principal Position



 
Stock (1) 
 
Restricted
Stock Units (2) 
 
Total (3) 
 


 Linda G. Alvarado, Director
 
 
 17,886
 
 
 —
 
 
 17,886
 


 Vance D. Coffman, Director
 
 

22,055
 
 

—
 
 

22,055
 


 Michael L. Eskew, Director
 
 

16,245
 
 

—
 
 

16,245
 


 W. James Farrell, Director
 
 

6,147
 
 

—
 
 

6,147
 


 Herbert L. Henkel, Director
 
 

8,949
 
 

—
 
 

8,949
 


 Edward M. Liddy, Director
 
 

26,880
 
 

—
 
 

26,880
 


 Robert S. Morrison, Director
 
 

114,501
 
 

—
 
 

114,501
 


 Aulana L. Peters, Director
 
 

45,077
 
 

—
 
 

45,077
 


 Robert J. Ulrich, Director
 
 

5,964
 
 

—
 
 

5,964
 


 George W. Buckley, Director,
Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer
 
 

824,865
 
 

269,631
 
 

1,094,496
 


 Patrick D. Campbell,
Chief Financial Officer
 
 

437,614
 
 

31,215
 
 

468,829
 


 Inge G. Thulin,
Executive Vice President
 
 

345,507
 
 

48,028
 
 

393,535
 


 Jean Lobey,
Executive Vice President
 
 

193,769
 
 

22,558
 
 

216,327
 


 Bradley T. Sauer,
Executive Vice President
 
 

291,108
 
 

48,581
 
 

339,689
 


 All Directors and Executive Officers as a Group (26 persons) (4)
 
 

4,295,986
 
 

683,760
 
 

4,979,746
 


 
 




FOOTNOTES
TO COMMON STOCK AND TOTAL STOCK-BASED HOLDINGS TABLE 
        (1)   This column lists beneficial ownership of 3M common stock as calculated under SEC rules, including restricted stock held
by certain of the Executive Officers over which they have sole voting power but no investment power. The restricted stock generally vests over a three- to five-year period if the executive
remains continuously employed by the Company and is subject to forfeiture under certain circumstances. Unless otherwise noted, voting power and investment power in the shares are exercisable solely by
the named person, and none of the shares are pledged as security by the named person. In accordance with SEC rules, this column also includes shares that may be acquired pursuant to stock options that
are or will be exercisable within 60 days of February 26, 2010 as follows: Mr. Buckley (781,133), Mr. Campbell (407,193), Mr. Thulin (328,880),
Mr. Lobey (192,153), Mr. Sauer (274,679), and Mr. Morrison (92,632). Mr. Morrison's options were granted during his service as interim CEO from 
39



 
Table of Contents
June 30
to December 6, 2005. This column also includes the number of shares of the Company's common stock which the nonemployee directors will receive upon termination of membership on
the Board of Directors for any reason as follows: Ms. Alvarado (8,593), Mr. Coffman (16,648), Mr. Eskew (16,245), Mr. Farrell (6,147), Mr. Henkel (8,949),
Mr. Liddy (26,880), Mr. Morrison (17,344), Mrs. Peters (39,707), and Mr. Ulrich (5,707). This column includes the following shares over which the identified director or
Named Executive Officer has shared voting and investment power through family trusts or joint accounts: Mr. Morrison (3,934) and Mr. Campbell (1,878). 
        (2)   This column represents restricted stock units that generally vest over a three- to five-year period, assuming continued
employment until each vesting date (or until the individual retires from the Company, in some cases). 
        (3)   This column shows the individual's total 3M stock-based holdings, including the securities shown in the "Stock" column
(as described in note 1) and restricted stock units (as described in note 2). 
        (4)   All directors and executive officers, as a group, owned beneficially less than one percent of the outstanding common
stock of the Company. 
 
 
  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF MORE THAN 5 PERCENT STOCKHOLDERS     
        The following table sets forth information regarding beneficial ownership of more than 5 percent of the outstanding 3M stock as
of December 31, 2009. 

















Name/Address



 
Common Stock
Beneficially Owned 
 
Percent of
Class 
 


 State Street Corporation (1)
State Street Financial Center
One Lincoln Street
Boston, MA 02111
 
 
53,307,941
 
 
7.5
 


 BlackRock, Inc. (2)
40 East 52nd Street
New York, NY 10022
 
 

37,891,111
 
 

5.35
 






        (1)   State Street Corporation ("State Street") reported in Schedule 13G filed with the SEC on February 12, 2010,
that it held as of December 31, 2009, shared voting and shared dispositive power with respect to 53,307,941 shares of 3M common stock. State Street serves as trustee for certain 3M savings
plans, including the Company's Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan, a 401(k) retirement savings plan. Under the terms of the plans, State Street is required to vote shares
allocated to the accounts of the participants in accordance with instructions received from such participants. State Street disclaims beneficial ownership of all of the shares listed above. 
        (2)   Based on information on a Schedule 13G filed by BlackRock, Inc. with the SEC on January 29, 2010. 

 
 
  SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE     
        Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires our directors and executive officers to file with the Securities
and Exchange Commission reports regarding their ownership and changes in ownership of our stock. As a practical matter, 3M assists its directors and executive officers by monitoring transactions and
completing and filing Section 16 reports on their behalf. 3M believes that during 2009, its directors and executive officers complied with all Section 16(a) filing requirements. In
making this statement, 3M has relied upon examination of the copies of Forms 3, 4, and 5 and the written representations of its directors and executive officers. 
40



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION     
 
    Compensation Discussion and Analysis     
 Executive Summary  
        3M's reaction to the global economic crisis that commenced in 2008 was early, swift, and vigorous. The Company's actions to preserve
cash and protect profitability
ranged from suspending stock repurchases to reducing capital expenditures to reducing acquisition activity to foregoing merit pay increases for employees to phasing out banked vacation. While 3M
employees made many sacrifices to enable the Company to weather the storm triggered by the slowdown, 3M management also made important decisions and investments throughout 2009 in order to preserve
and improve its future (maintaining its level of R&D investment, for example, and accelerating investments in China and India). The Company's financial performance over the past several quarters
indicates that these actions are working, and 3M is well positioned for a return to growth. 
        Despite
these actions, 3M's sales for 2009 fell 8.5 percent from 2008, to $23.1 billion. The size of this decrease was in line with the overall economy, and close to the
estimated decline in worldwide industrial production. Including special items, 3M's net income for 2009 fell 7.7 percent from 2008, to $3.193 billion. Reflecting its sensitivity to
changes in the Company's income, 3M's Economic Profit (as defined below) for 2009 declined 19 percent compared to its Economic Profit for 2008. 
        The
impact of the global economic crisis on 3M and 3M's actions in response to the crisis were also reflected in the compensation provided to our Named Executive Officers. Like 3M's
other salaried employees, none of the Named Executive Officers received merit pay increases in their cash compensation during 2009. The declines in 3M's sales and Economic Profit that commenced in the
fourth quarter of 2008 and continued throughout most of 2009 resulted in a zero payout on the Performance Unit Plan awards issued to 3M's executives in 2007 for the three-year performance
period of 2007-2009. While the impact varied from employee to employee, 3M also reduced the target value of the 2009 long-term incentive compensation awards made to its
eligible employees by an average of 11 percent from the target value of the 2008 awards. 
        While
the Company's full year sales, net income, and Economic Profit declined as compared to 2008, the quarterly year-on-year comparisons improved throughout the
year. For example, sales declined 21.3 percent in the first quarter, 15.1 percent in the second quarter, and 5.6 percent in the third quarter, while actually improving
11.1 percent in the fourth quarter. As a result of this improving performance, especially as compared to the plans we established at the beginning of 2009, when the economic crisis was in its
early stages, the annual incentive compensation earned during 2009 by the Named Executive Officers (as well as many other 3M employees) exceeded their target amounts. 
        Investors
reacted to the strong management actions and improving performance by causing our stock price to rise from $57.54 at the end of 2008 to $82.67 at the end of 2009 (an increase
of 44 percent, as compared to an increase of 23 percent in the S&P 500). This increase erased nearly all of the losses the Named Executive Officers (and 3M's other employees)
experienced in the value of their outstanding stock options and restricted stock unit grants during the prior year (when 3M's stock price had declined from $84.32 at the end of 2007 to $57.54 at the
end of 2008). 
        During
2009 the Company changed the timing of its annual stock option grants from May to February. This change will provide a stronger and more immediate link between the performance of
the eligible employees during the preceding year and the size of their annual stock option grants. Due to the difficulty of reliably predicting business performance or establishing meaningful
performance targets in early 2009, the Compensation Committee decided to replace the performance shares that would otherwise have been granted to the Company's executives as part of their 2009
long-term incentive compensation awards with time-vested restricted stock units. 
41



 
Table of Contents
 Objectives of 3M's Executive Compensation Program  
        3M believes that the compensation of its executives should be closely tied to the performance and growth of the Company, so that their
interests are aligned with the interests of long-term 3M stockholders. Consistent with this philosophy, the following core principles provide a framework for the Company's executive
compensation program: 


•Total compensation must be competitive to attract the best talent to 3M, motivate executives to perform at their highest
levels, reward outstanding achievement, and retain those individuals with the leadership abilities and skills necessary for building long-term stockholder value;  
•The portion of an executive's total compensation that varies with performance and is therefore at risk should increase
with the level of an individual's responsibility;   
•3M's compensation plans and practices should aim to achieve an appropriate balance between incentives for delivering
outstanding performance and the potential for encouraging excessive risk-taking;   
•The goals for any variable pay plans must be consistent with the Company's business objectives and increasing stockholder
value; and   
•Executives are most effectively motivated to build long-term stockholder value when a significant portion of
their personal net worth is held in 3M stock. 

The
Compensation Committee regularly reviews the design of and risks associated with the Company's executive compensation program, with the assistance of its independent compensation consultant, and
makes decisions concerning changes in the executive compensation program when appropriate. The Committee also makes individual pay decisions regarding the compensation of the Company's 19 senior
executives, including the Chief Executive Officer. 
 Terms  
        This Compensation Discussion and Analysis uses the following terms when discussing executive compensation of the
Company: 


•"Benchmarking Groups" means both the survey comparator group of companies and 3M's executive compensation peer group of 18
companies, as described in the "Benchmarking" section of this CD&A.   
•"Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of 3M Company.   
•"Economic Profit," as used for compensation plan purposes, means the after-tax operating income of the Company
or a business unit, adjusted to exclude special items and the impact of acquisitions or divestitures in the year each acquisition or divestiture is completed, less a charge (10 percent in 2009)
for the capital used to generate such after-tax operating income.   
•"Intended Value" means the internal estimated value of long-term incentive compensation awards made under the
Company's long-term incentive compensation plans. For each executive, this value is determined each year based on the estimated value of similar long-term incentive
compensation awards made to executives performing similar duties by companies in the Benchmarking Groups.   
•"Named Executive Officers" means the five executives whose compensation is reported in the Summary Compensation Table of
this proxy statement. For 2009, these "Named Executive Officers" are George W. Buckley, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer; Patrick D. Campbell, Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer; Inge G. Thulin, Executive Vice President, International Operations; Jean Lobey, Executive Vice President, Safety, Security 

42



 
Table of Contents


and
Protection Services Business; and Bradley T. Sauer, Executive Vice President, Health Care Business.  


•"Organic Sales" means the sales of the Company or a business unit, in local currency, adjusted to exclude the impact of
acquisitions or divestitures in the year each acquisition or divestiture is completed.   
•"Total Cash Compensation" means the total of an individual's base salary and annual incentive compensation. 

 Benchmarking  
        In order to accomplish the objective of providing competitive total compensation, 3M annually surveys the executive compensation
practices of a large group of comparator companies (approximately 160, although the number and identity of the companies may vary from year to year). Survey data is adjusted to recognize the different
sizes of the comparator companies (based on annual revenues) as compared to the size of 3M. The survey data is obtained from three consulting firms (Hewitt Associates, Frederic W.
Cook & Co., Inc., and
Towers Perrin). The survey comparator group consists of companies in the Dow Jones Industrial Average (modified to exclude financial services companies), and other companies with annual revenue
exceeding $10 billion that participate in the three consultants' executive compensation surveys. By using survey data from a large number of comparator companies, 3M is able to conduct a
rigorous benchmarking process with more complete and reliable data for each executive position benchmarked, including executive positions below the Named Executive Officers. The Committee does not
review the identity of the companies in this survey comparator group. 
        In
addition, the same three consulting firms provide pay data and information on the executive compensation practices at the companies in 3M's executive compensation peer group. This pay
data is used by the Committee to verify the benchmarking results for the Named Executive Officers and other senior executives, assuring that the Company's compensation objectives are being met. 3M's
executive compensation peer group consists of the following 18 companies, as recommended by the Committee's independent compensation consultant and approved by the Committee: 












Avery Dennison Corporation
 
Honeywell International Inc.


Caterpillar Inc.
 
Illinois Tool Works Inc.


Danaher Corp.
 
Johnson & Johnson


Deere & Company
 
Kimberly-Clark Corporation


E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company
 
Medtronic, Inc.


Eaton Corporation
 
The Procter & Gamble Company


Ecolab Inc.
 
Textron Inc.


Emerson Electric Co.
 
Tyco International Ltd.


General Electric Company
 
United Technologies Corporation




        The
companies in this executive compensation peer group were selected because (1) their performance is monitored regularly by the same market analysts who monitor the performance
of 3M, and/or (2) they meet several criteria based on similarity of their business and pay models, market capitalization (based on an 8-quarter rolling average), and annual
revenues. During 2009 the Committee reviewed both the criteria for selecting companies to be included in this peer group as well as the identity of the 21 companies previously included in the group,
and decided to remove three companies from the peer group. Alcoa, Inc., Archer-Daniels-Midland Company, and SPX Corporation were removed from the peer group because they no longer satisfy
either of the criteria for peer group membership. 
43




 










Table of Contents 
 How the Committee uses this Benchmarking Information  
        When establishing and adjusting the base salary, Total Cash Compensation and long-term incentive compensation of the Named
Executive Officers and the Company's other senior executives, the Committee uses the pay data from the survey comparator group and compares these results with the pay data from the executive
compensation peer group. The Committee also uses the information on the executive compensation practices at companies in the executive compensation peer group when considering additions to or changes
in the Company's current executive compensation program and practices. 
        With
this information, the Committee generally aims to provide the Company's executives with Total Cash Compensation and long-term incentive compensation that is at or very
close to the median of the corresponding compensation paid to executives by companies in the Benchmarking Groups. Both the Total Cash Compensation and long-term incentive
compensation of these executives are modified based on their individual performance results, with high performers (but not average or low performers) receiving increases in compensation that can over
time bring their amounts to or near the 75th percentile of the corresponding compensation paid to executives by companies in the Benchmarking Groups. 
 Role of the Compensation Committee and its Advisors  
        3M pays its executives compensation to recognize their contributions to the success of its business and provide incentives for them to
deliver performance that meets the growth, net income, and other objectives of the Company. All elements of this compensation are determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
(the "Committee"), which is composed solely of independent nonemployee directors. In addition, the Committee's decisions concerning the compensation of 3M's Chief Executive Officer are subject to
ratification by all of the independent members of the Board of Directors. 
        As
of December 31, 2009, the members of the Committee were Vance D. Coffman, Robert S. Morrison, Aulana L. Peters, and Robert J. Ulrich. During 2009, the
Committee was assisted by its independent compensation consultant, George B. Paulin of Frederic W. Cook & Co., Inc. In addition to participating in the meetings of
the Committee, Mr. Paulin provides the Committee with significant assistance and advice in the review of the Company's salary structure, short-term and long-term
incentive compensation plans, compensation-related risks, and other related executive pay policies. He also provides expert knowledge of marketplace trends and best practices relating to executive
compensation practices and competitive pay levels. Mr. Paulin and his firm provide no other services to the Company or 3M management, with the exception of the pay survey data described above.
He and his firm also provide expert advisory support to the Nominating and Governance Committee on the compensation of 3M's nonemployee directors. 
        3M's
executive officers assist the Committee with the process of determining the compensation of the Company's executives. In particular, Mr. Buckley, assisted by 3M's Senior Vice
President, Human Resources, performs an annual performance evaluation of each of 3M's senior executives whose compensation is determined by the Committee. The results of this annual performance
evaluation form the basis for Mr. Buckley's recommendations to the Compensation Committee as to the annual merit base salary and Total Cash Compensation increases for such senior executives as
well as the size of their annual long-term incentive compensation awards. The Committee discusses these recommendations with Mr. Buckley at its meetings prior to making its
decisions on the amount of these annual merit increases and long-term incentive compensation awards. 
 Elements of the Compensation Program  
        The compensation program for 3M's executives consists of the following elements: base salary, short-term cash incentive in
the form of an annual incentive, and long-term equity incentives in the form 
44



 
Table of Contents

of
performance shares, stock options, restricted stock or restricted stock units. 3M's executives also participate in various benefit plans made available to most of 3M's U.S. employees, are eligible
to participate in several deferred compensation plans, and receive other benefits and a limited number of perquisites. The entire program applied to approximately 110 executives during 2009, including
all five of the Named Executive Officers. 

 Base salary  

        3M pays each of its executives a base salary in cash on a monthly basis. The amount of this base salary is reviewed annually, and is
not considered to be "at risk" as it does not vary with the performance of the Company. This base salary is designed to compensate the executives for the performance of their normal responsibilities,
and it is the only component of their compensation that is considered to be fixed rather than variable in nature. 

 Short-term incentive  

        3M provides its executives with short-term incentive compensation through annual incentive plans, which are designed to
align a significant portion of their cash compensation with the financial performance of the Company and its business units. 3M's broad-based annual incentive plan delivers short-term
incentive compensation based on three performance metrics: Organic Sales vs. target, Economic Profit vs. target, and total Company Economic Profit vs. the prior year. While the short-term
incentive compensation earned by most 3M executives is determined under this annual incentive plan, the short-term incentive compensation earned by 3M's Named Executive Officers as well as
the other senior executives whose compensation is decided by the Committee is determined under the Executive Annual Incentive Plan approved by 3M's stockholders at the 2007 Annual Meeting. A total of
19 3M executives participated in this Executive Annual Incentive Plan during 2009. This Executive Annual Incentive Plan, which is intended to comply with the requirements of
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, provides performance-based compensation for which the performance goal is the Company's earning of adjusted net income. 
        The
Executive Annual Incentive Plan establishes a maximum amount of annual incentive compensation that may be earned by each covered executive during a year, which is either
one-quarter of one percent of the Company's adjusted net income for such year (for the Named Executive Officers) or one-tenth of one percent of the Company's adjusted net
income for such year (for all other covered executives), and then provides the Committee with the discretion to pay each covered executive less than this maximum amount based on such factors as it
deems relevant. The primary factors considered by the Committee in exercising this discretion are each executive's individual performance, each individual's target annual incentive, and the
performance of the Company and its business units as measured by the three performance metrics referred to above and that are used to determine payouts under the broad-based annual incentive plan.
While the Committee considers and is guided by the amounts that would be payable under the broad-based annual incentive plan (based on the performance of 3M and its business units) if these executives
were covered by such plan, it is not bound by these results and does exercise its discretion to pay different amounts. Individual performance is considered as a factor based upon the annual
performance evaluation that Mr. Buckley, assisted by 3M's Senior Vice President, Human Resources, does for each covered executive (other than himself) and that the independent members of the
Board of Directors do for Mr. Buckley. These performance evaluations are done according to 3M's overall performance assessment and management processes, which involve setting annual financial
and non-financial goals and objectives for each individual and then assessing each individual's performance against these goals and objectives at the end of the year. The annual assessment
of individual performance assesses each executive's overall performance against these goals, but does not assess performance against each goal in a formulaic manner. 
45



 
Table of Contents

 Long-term incentives  

        3M provides long-term incentive compensation to its executives through the Long-Term Incentive Plan approved by
3M's stockholders at the 2008 Annual Meeting. This Plan enables the Company to provide variable compensation to 3M's executives based on the Company's long-term performance. This
compensation may be provided in the form of either performance units payable in cash or performance shares payable in the form of shares of 3M common stock. The amount of cash or the number of shares
of 3M common stock payable with respect to each performance unit or performance share awarded is contingent upon attainment of the performance criteria selected each year by the Committee for the
applicable performance period. 
        The
Long-Term Incentive Plan also enables the Company to provide compensation to 3M's executives based on the value of and changes in the value of the Company's common stock.
This Plan authorizes the Committee to grant stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, and other stock awards to management employees of the Company. The
Committee makes annual grants of stock options under this Plan to 3M's executives, including each of the Named Executive Officers. These options have an exercise price equal to the closing market
price of the Company's common stock on the grant date, and generally expire ten years after the grant date. Grants of restricted stock and/or restricted stock units under this Plan may be made on an
annual basis and/or to selected executives in appropriate circumstances. These circumstances have included the hiring of new executives as well as the need to retain current
high-performing executives. These shares of restricted stock and restricted stock units vest over periods ranging from one to five years after the grant date, which encourage the
executives to remain employed by the Company until the shares or units have vested. 

 Benefits and perquisites  

        3M's executives generally participate in the same health care, disability, life insurance, pension, and 401(k) benefit plans made
available to the Company's U.S. employees. 
        Executives
also receive a limited number of additional benefits and perquisites described in more detail in the All Other Compensation Table of this proxy statement. These additional
benefits and perquisites are provided for the convenience (financial planning assistance, for example), financial security (retirement contributions and premiums for additional life insurance
coverage, for example), and personal security (travel on corporate aircraft and monitoring service fees, for example) of the executives. While some of these additional benefits and perquisites are
limited to a single executive (travel on corporate aircraft and monitoring service fees, provided only to Mr. Buckley), others are provided to many other employees besides the Company's
executives (retirement contributions). During 2009 the Committee eliminated all remaining tax gross-up payments made to the Company's senior executives (including all of the Named
Executive Officers) to reimburse them for the income taxes payable as a result of the income imputed to them as a result of perquisites or other personal benefits provided by the Company. 
        Two
of the Named Executive Officers (Mr. Buckley and Mr. Campbell) earn supplemental retirement benefits pursuant to their employment agreements with the Company, which
were negotiated at the time they agreed to leave their previous employers and join 3M. These supplemental benefits are designed to replace the pension benefits they failed to earn under the plans of
their previous employers because their accrued benefits under those plans do not grow with future increases in compensation. 
        During
2009 the Committee approved (and the independent members of the 3M Board of Directors ratified) a grant of 5,420 restricted stock units to Mr. Buckley (which had a grant
date value of $380,000) in performance of the Company's obligation to pay him $95,000 in annual life insurance premiums for the years 2009-2012 under his employment agreement. 
46



 
Table of Contents

 Deferred compensation  

        3M's executives are eligible to participate in several deferred compensation programs that allow them to voluntarily defer the receipt
of cash and certain stock compensation otherwise payable by the Company. During 2009 the Committee approved the modification of one of these deferred compensation programs (the 3M Deferred
Compensation Plan) and the adoption of a new program effective in 2010 (the Deferred Compensation Excess Plan), which is designed to provide more flexibility for individual tax-planning
purposes. In combination, the new program and the modified program neither increased the deferral opportunities available to the executives and other employees who are eligible to defer compensation
thereunder nor increased the Company's cost of operating the programs. 
 How 3M Determined the 2009 Compensation of the Named Executive Officers  
        All amounts were determined by the Committee, assisted by its independent compensation consultant, with the input of Mr. Buckley
other than with respect to his own compensation (including his recommendations based on the results of the most recent annual performance evaluation of the senior executives whose compensation is
determined by the Committee), and utilizing the compensation information from the companies in the Benchmarking Groups. In addition, during the process of determining their 2009 compensation, the
Committee received and reviewed tally sheets comparing the amounts of compensation actually received by the Company's Named Executive Officers during 2008 to the amounts reported in its 2009 proxy
statement as well as the compensation that would be owed to such individuals in the event of the termination of their employment. With this information, the Committee initially aimed to provide the
Company's executives with Total Cash Compensation and long-term incentive compensation that is at or very close to the median value of the corresponding compensation paid to executives
with similar responsibilities at companies in the Benchmarking Groups. However, the Committee then adjusted the stock option portion of the long-term incentive compensation provided to the
Company's executives to reflect each executive's actual individual
performance during the previous year. Individual performance is considered as a factor based upon the annual performance evaluation that Mr. Buckley, assisted by 3M's Senior Vice President,
Human Resources, does for each Named Executive Officer (other than himself) and that the independent members of the Board of Directors do for Mr. Buckley. These performance evaluations are done
according to 3M's overall performance assessment and management processes, which involve setting annual financial and non-financial goals and objectives for each individual and then
assessing each individual's performance against these goals and objectives at the end of the year. The annual assessment of individual performance assesses each executive's overall performance against
these goals, but does not assess performance against each goal in a formulaic manner. High performers may receive long-term incentive compensation awards valued at or near the
75th percentile of the long-term incentive compensation provided by companies in the Benchmarking Groups. Differences in the amounts of compensation provided to 3M's
Named Executive Officers reflect a variety of factors, including job responsibilities, the market pay for executives performing similar responsibilities (as measured by the pay information obtained
from companies in the Benchmarking Groups), experience and individual performance. 

 Base salary  

        Changes in the base salaries of the Named Executive Officers (as well as their target Total Cash Compensation) are considered annually
by the Committee. Any adjustments are made after considering the most recent compensation survey data for executives with similar responsibilities at companies in 3M's Benchmarking Groups, each
individual's position in the salary range for his or her position along with the individual's performance during the preceding annual period, and the experience of each individual. Consistent with the
decision to forego merit pay increases that generally applied across the Company during 2009, the Committee did not make any changes in the base salaries or target Total Cash Compensation of the Named
Executive Officers during 2009. 
47




 











Table of Contents 

 Short-term incentive  

        During 2009 the Committee chose to deliver short-term incentive compensation to its Named Executive Officers in the form of
an annual cash incentive under the Executive Annual Incentive Plan. Each Named Executive Officer had a target annual incentive for the year, which is equal to the difference between their target Total
Cash Compensation and their annual base salary. As explained above in the "Short-term incentive" discussion under "Elements of the Compensation Program," the Committee considered the
amount of an individual's target annual incentive together with his individual performance during 2009 and the 2009 performance of 3M and its business units as measured under the Company's broad-based
annual incentive plan when it exercised its discretion to determine the amount of each Named Executive Officer's annual incentive compensation for 2009. 
        Since
the Company satisfied the Executive Annual Incentive Plan's performance objective by earning Adjusted Net Income (defined as the net income of 3M as reported in its Consolidated
Statement of Income as adjusted to exclude special items) in 2009 in the amount of $3.312 billion, the Plan authorized the Committee to approve payments of annual incentive compensation to each
Named Executive Officer equal to one-quarter of one percent of such Adjusted Net Income ($8,280,000). Utilizing the discretion reserved to the Committee by the Plan, and in order to more
closely align the payout to each individual with the 2009 performance of the Company and the relevant business unit as well as the individual's performance, the Committee decided to reduce the amounts
payable to the Named Executive Officers (including Mr. Buckley, for whom the Committee's decision to approve the reduced amount of his 2009 annual incentive was ratified by the independent
members of the 3M Board of Directors) from the authorized maximum amount to the following amounts: 




















 
 


Name
 
Target Annual
Incentive
 
Amount that
would have
been payable
under broad-
based annual
incentive plan
 
Actual 2009
Incentive
 


 
 


 George W. Buckley
 
$
2,795,000
 
$
3,508,284
 
$
3,859,112
 


  
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
$
508,400
 
$
638,144
 
$
701,958
 


  
 


 Inge G. Thulin
 
$
396,000
 
$
507,672
 
$
558,439
 


  
 


 Jean Lobey
 
$
353,600
 
$
519,368
 
$
571,304
 


  
 


 Bradley T. Sauer
 
$
381,600
 
$
519,739
 
$
571,713
 


  
 




        As
explained above, one of the primary factors considered by the Committee in utilizing its discretion to reduce the annual incentive payouts below the maximum permitted under the
Executive Annual Incentive Plan is the amounts that would have been payable under the Company's broad-based annual incentive plan if the Named Executive Officers had been covered by such plan. The
table above also shows these amounts, which are based on the performance of the Company and, as applicable, the respective business units of the Named Executive Officers during 2009 and the formulas
for determining payouts based on that performance under the broad-based annual incentive plan (before considering individual performance). These amounts were based on the following performance results
for the Company and, as applicable, the respective business units of the Named Executive Officers during 2009 
48



 
Table of Contents

(dollar
amounts in millions) in respect of each performance metric of the broad-based annual incentive plan: 



































Business Unit



 
Organic
Sales
(Plan) 
 
Organic
Sales
(Actual) 
 
Organic
Sales
(Actual vs.
Plan) 
 
Economic
Profit
(Plan) 
 
Economic
Profit
(Actual) 
 
Economic
Profit
(Actual vs.
Plan) 
 
Total
Company
Economic
Profit vs.
Prior Year 
 
Weighted
Average
Payout %
Based on
Payout
Curve 
 


 



 Total Corporate
 
$
23,699
 
$
23,802
 
 
100
%
$
1,565
 
$
1,733
 
 
111
%
 
81
%
 
126
%


 Total International
 
 
15,315
 
 
15,330
 
 
100
%
 
1,760
 
 
1,969
 
 
112
%
 
81
%
 
128
%


 



 Safety, Security & Protection Services Business
 
 
3,304
 
 
3,323
 
 
101
%
 
387
 
 
456
 
 
118
%
 
81
%
 
147
%


 Health Care Business
 
 
4,367
 
 
4,459
 
 
102
%
 
733
 
 
826
 
 
113
%
 
81
%
 
136
%




The Company determined (and, with respect to Mr. Buckley, the independent members of the Board of Directors agreed), that during 2009 each of the Named
Executive Officers exhibited strong performance against their goals, and the Committee determined (and, with respect to Mr. Buckley's payment, the independent members of the Board of Directors
agreed) that this strong performance warranted an annual incentive compensation payout for each of the Named Executive Officers that was ten percent higher than the amount that would have been payable
according to the formulas for the broad-based annual incentive plan for 2009. The amounts of these payouts also reflected the Committee's determination (and, with respect to Mr. Buckley's
payment, the agreement of the independent members of the Board of Directors) of the appropriate amount of cash incentive compensation to pay for 2009 as a component of the Named Executive Officers'
total compensation. 

 Long-term incentives — 2009  

        After considering the most recent long-term incentive compensation data from companies in the Benchmarking Groups and after
taking into account its evaluation of their individual performance during 2008, the Committee approved (and in the case of Mr. Buckley, the independent members of the Board of Directors
ratified) the following changes in the Intended Value of the Named Executive Officers' long-term incentive
compensation awards for 2009. These changes reflect the Committee's estimate that the value of the long-term incentive compensation awards made to similar executives by companies in the
Benchmarking Groups would decline an average of 8 percent from the value of such awards made in 2008. 




















 
 


Name
 
Intended Value of
2008 Awards
 
Intended Value of
2009 Awards
 
Change
 


 
 


 



 George W. Buckley
 
$
8,500,000
 
$
7,820,000
 
($
680,000
)


  
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
$
2,058,000
 
$
2,074,000
 
 $
16,000
 


  
 


 



 Inge G. Thulin
 
$
1,758,000
 
$
1,506,000
 
($
252,000
)


  
 


 Jean Lobey
 
$
1,504,000
 
$
1,495,000
 
($
9,000
)


  
 


 



 Bradley T. Sauer
 
$
1,656,000
 
$
1,501,000
 
($
155,000
)


  
 




        Consistent
with market practices at companies in the Benchmarking Groups, during 2009 the Committee chose to deliver one-half of the Intended Value of the
long-term incentive compensation provided to 3M's Named Executive Officers in the form of stock options and the remaining one-half in the form of restricted stock units (before
adjustment for individual performance). For 2009, the Committee decided not to grant any performance units or performance shares to the Named Executive Officers (or any of the Company's other
executives). At a time of great uncertainty due to the economic crisis that existed in early 2009, the Committee believed it would be extremely difficult to fairly and accurately 
49



 
Table of Contents

predict
business performance or establish meaningful performance targets over a period of at least three years as required by the Long-Term Incentive Plan. Accordingly, for 2009 the
Committee chose to replace the portion of the Named Executive Officers' (and the Company's other executives') annual long-term incentive compensation normally provided in the form of
performance shares with restricted stock units that vest three years following the grant date assuming continued employment. Dividend equivalents equal to the dividends payable on the same number of
shares of 3M common stock will accrue on these restricted stock units during the vesting period and be paid out in cash on the vesting date, although no dividend equivalents will be paid on any of
these restricted stock units that are forfeited prior to the vesting date. 
        Annual
stock option grants occur in February, and the exercise price for these options is set at the fair market value of a share of 3M stock on the grant date (as required by the
provisions of the Long-Term Incentive Plan approved by 3M's stockholders in 2008). Fair market value of a share of 3M stock as defined in the Long-Term Incentive Plan is the
closing price at which 3M common stock traded on the New York Stock Exchange. Using the closing price of 3M common stock to establish the exercise price for stock option grants is a best practice
among 3M's comparator and peer companies. Annual stock options granted under this Plan expire ten years after the grant date, and become exercisable in equal installments on each of the first three
anniversaries of the grant date. 

 Long-term incentives — Prior years  

        2009 marked the final year of the three-year performance period of the long-term incentive compensation awards
made to 3M's
executives in 2007 under the Performance Unit Plan. The awards made during 2007 were designed to deliver compensation based on the performance of the Company over the years 2007, 2008, and 2009 as
measured by two key metrics that create stockholder value: Economic Profit Growth and Sales Growth. Pursuant to the formula approved by the Committee at the time the awards were made, the Company's
performance during this three-year performance period (average annual increase in Economic Profit of -2.4% and average annual increase in Organic Sales, as compared to the
Industrial Production Index, of -0.5%) resulted in no payout for any of the awards made during 2007 (as compared to the original target value of $120 per performance unit). 
        In
August 2009 the Committee approved a correction in the payout of the awards the Company granted to its executives (including the Named Executive Officers) in 2006 under the
Performance Unit Plan. In February 2009 the Committee determined the value and approved the payout of these 2006 awards. After that February meeting, the publisher of the Industrial Production Index
(Global Insight), which is relied upon as the base for measuring 3M's Sales Growth over the 3-year performance period, restated the Index values for the years in such performance period.
The restatement reflected the abrupt downturn in the world economy during the last half of 2008 that was not fully reflected in the original published Index values. As a result of this restatement,
the correct payout was $20 per performance unit and not the $12 per performance unit the Committee initially approved at its February meeting prior to the publisher's restatement of this Index (based
upon an average annual increase in Sales Growth of 0.3%, instead of 0.1%, as initially determined). Accordingly, in August the Committee approved (and in the case of Mr. Buckley, the
independent members of the Board of Directors ratified) an additional 
50



 
Table of Contents

payment
of $8 per performance unit. Based on this corrected payout value, in August 2009 the Named Executive Officers received the following additional payments: 




















 
 


Name
 
Original payment for
2006 Award
 
Additional payment
for 2006 Award
 
Total payment for
2006 Award
 


 
 


 



 George W. Buckley
 
$
200,004
 
$
133,336
 
$
333,340
 


  
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
$
74,400
 
$
49,600
 
$
124,000
 


  
 


 



 Inge G. Thulin
 
$
64,800
 
$
43,200
 
$
108,000
 


  
 


 Jean Lobey
 
$
52,800
 
$
35,200
 
$
88,000
 


  
 


 



 Bradley T. Sauer
 
$
52,800
 
$
35,200
 
$
88,000
 


  
 




These
additional payments are reflected in the corrected amounts of their Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation for 2008 in the Summary Compensation Table that follows. 
 2010 Compensation Decisions  
        Following the end of the year, the Committee considered the collective performance of the Named Executive Officers (and the Company's
other executives) during 2009. The Committee concluded that the engagement, loyalty, and leadership exhibited by these individuals was a critical factor in the Company's ability to weather the impacts
of the global economic crisis and deliver the business results it achieved during 2009. This strong performance was reflected in the performance of 3M stock during 2009. Based on this 2009
performance, the Committee decided to increase (on a one-time basis) the value of the 2010 long-term incentive compensation awards to the Named Executive Officers (and to the
other executives of the Company), as described below. In the opinion of the Committee, providing this one-time increase properly aligns the rewards these individuals receive with their
strong performance during 2009. Additionally, this increase in long-term incentive compensation will continue to motivate these individuals to continue that strong performance and
engagement in 2010, which will be another critical performance year. 
        Specifically,
in February 2010 the Committee approved (and in the case of Mr. Buckley, the independent members of the 3M Board of Directors ratified) the following
one-time increases in the Intended Value of the 2010 long-term incentive compensation awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan:
Mr. Buckley — $4,000,000; Mr. Campbell — $1,100,000; Mr. Thulin — $800,000; Mr. Lobey —
$800,000; and Mr. Sauer — $800,000. The size of the increases varies from approximately 50 to 65 percent of the Intended Value of each individual's 2009
long-term incentive compensation awards. 
        The
Committee decided to deliver this additional value in the form of restricted stock units that vest in equal installments on each of the first three anniversaries of the grant date,
assuming continued employment until each vesting date (or until the individual retires from the Company, in which case the units will continue to vest according to the three-year vesting
schedule). Dividend equivalents equal to the dividends payable on the same number of shares of 3M common stock will accrue on these restricted stock units during the vesting period and be paid out in
cash on each vesting date, although no dividend equivalents will be paid on any of these restricted stock units that are forfeited prior to the vesting date. Delivering this additional value in the
form of restricted stock units (as compared to an additional cash bonus) will promote ongoing engagement and loyalty, further align the interests of these executives with those of 3M's stockholders,
encourage retention, and conserve the Company's cash. 
 Stock Ownership Guidelines  
        The Company's stock ownership guidelines apply to all Section 16 officers of the Company. They are designed to increase an
executive's equity stake in 3M and more closely align his or her interests 
51



 
Table of Contents

with
those of 3M's stockholders. The guidelines provide that the Chief Executive Officer should attain beneficial ownership of 3M stock equal to five times his or her annual base salary at the time of
appointment, Executive and Senior Vice Presidents should attain beneficial ownership of 3M stock equal to three times their annual base salary at the time of appointment, and Vice Presidents should
attain beneficial ownership of 3M stock equal to two times their annual base salary at the time of appointment. While the stock ownership guidelines provide that executives should attain this
beneficial ownership of 3M stock within five years of their appointment to these positions, all of our Named Executive Officers have already attained or exceeded these ownership levels. For purposes
of these guidelines, shares owned directly by an officer or by members of the officer's immediate family, shares owned indirectly through an officer's account in the Company's 401(k) plan, unvested
shares of restricted stock owned by an officer, and shares represented by unvested restricted stock units granted to an officer are considered to be beneficially owned by the officer and are counted
in determining attainment of the required ownership level. 
 Policy on Reimbursement of Incentive Payments ("Clawback")  
        The Company's Board of Directors has adopted a policy requiring the reimbursement of excess payments made to an executive in the event
that 3M is required to make a material restatement of its financial statements and that executive's intentional misconduct caused the need for the restatement. This policy applies to the
Section 16 officers of the Company. 
 Limit on Tax-Deductible Compensation  
        Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code prohibits 3M from deducting compensation paid in any year to its Chief Executive
Officer and each other Named Executive Officer whose compensation is reported in the Summary Compensation Table for such year by reason of being among the three most highly compensated officers for
that year, other than the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer ("Covered Employees"), in excess of
$1 million, but does not subject performance-based compensation to this limit. Due to his service as the Company's interim Chief Executive Officer for a period of approximately six months in
2005, one of the members of the Committee (Robert S. Morrison) does not participate in the Committee's decisions involving performance-based compensation since he is not considered an "outside
director" of the Company for purposes of Section 162(m) and the regulations published thereunder. 
        The
Committee continues to emphasize performance-based compensation for executives and thus minimize the effect of Section 162(m). However, the Committee believes that its primary
responsibility is to provide a compensation program that attracts, retains, and rewards the executive talent necessary for the Company's success. Consequently, in any year the Committee may authorize
nonperformance-based compensation in excess of $1 million. The Committee recognizes that the loss of the tax deduction may be unavoidable under these circumstances. 
        During
2009 the Committee decided to replace the portion of the Named Executive Officers' annual long-term incentive compensation awards normally provided in the form of
performance shares with service-based restricted stock units. Since these restricted stock units vest on the basis of continued employment with the Company, they do not qualify as performance-based
compensation for purposes of Section 162(m). The Committee concluded that, in view of the economic crisis that existed at the time, the Company's need to provide long-term incentive
compensation that would actually deliver its intended value to executives who remain with the Company outweighed the loss of the potential tax deduction available with performance shares that might
have paid out on the basis of long-term Company performance. 
52



 
Table of Contents
 Severance or Change in Control Arrangements  
        With the exception of Mr. Buckley and Mr. Campbell, who entered into employment agreements when they joined the Company
(leaving senior positions at other major companies, and in the case of Mr. Buckley, a chief executive officer position), 3M does not have severance plans or arrangements with any of its Named
Executive Officers. The absence of such arrangements reflects the Company's and the Committee's preference for operating without legally binding severance commitments, and preserves maximum
flexibility to deal with individual situations if and when the need arises. Exceptions were made in the cases of Mr. Buckley and Mr. Campbell at the time they were hired by the Company,
and were part of the employment terms and conditions offered by the Company to persuade them to leave their previous employers. 
        Similarly,
3M does not have arrangements providing for payments or other compensation in the event of a change in control of the Company, other than the payment, exercise, or delivery of
long-term incentive compensation awards issued prior to a change in control. For awards with a grant date prior to February 9, 2010, in the event of a change in control of the
Company, both the Long-Term Incentive Plan and its predecessors provided for (1) accelerated vesting of outstanding stock options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units, and
(2) the immediate termination and payout of all outstanding performance units and performance shares. This provision was intended to protect the previously-earned long-term
incentive compensation of employees (including the Named Executive Officers) against the uncertainty and risk of nonpayment that might occur following a takeover of the Company. 
        In
2010 the Board of Directors amended the Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan to eliminate the prior "single trigger" accelerated vesting provision in the event of a
change in control of the Company, and to establish a "double trigger" vesting acceleration provision. This new "double trigger" provision applies to awards with a grant date on or after
February 9, 2010 (including the one-time grants of restricted stock units described above). Specifically, the provision means that an employee whose employment is terminated without
cause or who resigns for "good reason" within eighteen months following a change in control of the Company will have (1) accelerated vesting of any outstanding stock options, restricted stock,
and restricted stock units, and (2) an immediate payout of any outstanding performance unit and performance share awards. The Board of Directors also amended the Long-Term Incentive
Plan to eliminate a provision that would have required the Company to provide employees (including the Named Executive Officers) with a gross-up payment in the event any excise tax was
determined to apply as a result of the payment, vesting, or delivery of long-term incentive compensation awards made thereunder in the event of a change in control. The Company does not
intend to include change in control "single trigger" accelerated vesting or excise tax gross-up provisions in future equity awards or agreements. 
 
 
  COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT     
        In accordance with the SEC's disclosure requirements for executive compensation, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
of 3M Company (the "Committee") has reviewed and discussed with 3M Management the Compensation Discussion and Analysis. Based on this review and these discussions with 3M Management, the Committee
recommended to the Board of Directors that this Compensation Discussion and Analysis be included in the 2010 proxy statement of 3M Company. 

Submitted
by the Compensation Committee 
Vance
D. Coffman, Chair
Robert S. Morrison
Aulana L. Peters
Robert J. Ulrich 

53



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Assessment of Risk Related to Compensation Programs     
        Based on the Company's recent assessment, the Company has determined that none of its compensation policies and practices is reasonably
likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company. To conduct this assessment, the Company completed an inventory of its executive and non-executive compensation programs globally,
with particular emphasis on incentive compensation plans or programs. Based on this inventory, the Company evaluated the primary components of its compensation plans and practices to identify whether
those components, either alone or in combination, properly balanced compensation opportunities and risk. The Company believes that the Company's overall cash versus equity pay mix, balance of
shorter-term versus longer-term performance focus, balance of revenue versus profit focused performance measures, stock ownership guidelines, and "clawback" policy all work together to
provide its employees and executives with incentives to deliver outstanding performance to build long-term shareholder value, while taking only necessary and prudent risks. In this regard,
the Company's strong ethics and its corporate compliance systems, which are overseen by the Audit Committee, further mitigate against excessive or inappropriate risk taking. The Compensation
Committee, with assistance from its independent compensation consultant, George B. Paulin of Fredric W. Cook & Co., Inc., reviewed the Company's risk assessment and a separate
risk assessment that Mr. Paulin conducted for the Committee on the Company's executive compensation policies and practices. Based on their consideration of these assessments, the Committee
concurred with the Company's determination. 
54




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  Summary Compensation Table     
        The following table shows the compensation earned or received during 2009, 2008, and 2007 by each of 3M's Named Executive Officers (as
determined pursuant to the SEC's disclosure requirements for executive compensation in Item 402 of Regulation S-K). 




































 
 


Name and
Principal Position
 
Year
 
Salary
($)
 
Stock
Awards
($)(1)
 
Option
Awards
($)(2)
 
Non-Equity
Incentive Plan
Compensation
($)(3)
 
Change in
Pension Value
and
Nonqualified
Deferred
Compensation
Earnings ($)(4)
 
All Other
Compensation
($)(5)
 
Total ($)
 


 
 


 



 George W. Buckley
 
 
2009
 
 
1,720,000
 
 
4,333,655
 
 
3,757,572
 
 
3,859,112
 
 
943,165
 
 
322,289
 
 
14,935,793
 


 
 



 Chairman of the
 
 
2008
 
 
1,720,000
 
 
4,002,422
 
 
3,363,492
 
 
2,977,410
 
 
0
 
 
252,423
 
 
12,315,747
 


 
 



 Board, President and
 
 
2007
 
 
1,670,000
 
 
79,250
 
 
3,417,792
 
 
4,521,495
 
 
3,624,406
 
 
409,908
 
 
13,722,851
 


 
 



 Chief Executive Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
 

2009
 
 

762,600
 
 

972,032
 
 

1,059,032
 
 

701,958
 
 

905,716
 
 

88,510
 
 

4,489,848
 


 
 Senior Vice President
 
 
2008
 
 
757,050
 
 
987,222
 
 
785,916
 
 
601,473
 
 
1,310,462
 
 
90,138
 
 
4,532,261
 


 
 and Chief Financial
 
 
2007
 
 
728,900
 
 
0
 
 
1,095,100
 
 
1,075,266
 
 
834,143
 
 
86,952
 
 
3,820,361
 


 
 Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 Inge G. Thulin
 
 

2009
 
 

594,000
 
 

700,021
 
 

854,148
 
 

558,439
 
 

697,638
 
 

126,870
 
 

3,531,116
 


 
 



 Executive Vice
 
 
2008
 
 
580,500
 
 
2,721,181
 
 
803,516
 
 
482,683
 
 
1,070,885
 
 
61,207
 
 
5,719,972
 


 
 



 President, International
 
 
2007
 
 
522,000
 
 
0
 
 
828,677
 
 
797,623
 
 
422,288
 
 
62,303
 
 
2,632,891
 


 
 



 Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Jean Lobey
 
 

2009
 
 

530,400
 
 

700,021
 
 

764,036
 
 

571,304
 
 

422,152
 
 

445,671
 
 

3,433,584
 


 
 Executive Vice
 
 
2008
(6)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 President, Safety,
 
 
2007
(6)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 Security and Protection
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 Services Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 Bradley T. Sauer
 
 

2009
 
 

572,400
 
 

700,021
 
 

970,097
 
 

571,713
 
 

465,302
 
 

74,265
 
 

3,353,798
 


 
 



 Executive Vice
 
 
2008
 
 
564,300
 
 
2,721,181
 
 
694,907
 
 
493,588
 
 
803,447
 
 
53,314
 
 
5,330,737
 


 
 



 President, Health Care
 
 
2007
(6)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 



 Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 




FOOTNOTES TO SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE 
        (1)   The amounts in the Stock Awards column reflect the aggregate grant date fair value of such Awards computed in accordance
with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, Compensation — Stock Compensation. The amounts reported for the years 2007 and 2008 do
not match the amounts reported in last year's proxy, due to the new reporting requirements adopted by the SEC in late 2009, which require the Company to restate the amounts for these years applying
the new grant date fair value methodology. Assumptions made in the calculation of these amounts are included in Note 16 to the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2009, included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 16, 2010. 
        (2)   The amounts in the Option Awards column reflect the aggregate grant date fair value of such Awards computed in accordance
with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, Compensation — Stock Compensation. The amounts reported for the years 2007 and 2008 do
not match the amounts reported in last year's proxy, due to the new reporting requirements adopted by the SEC in late 2009, which require the Company to restate the amounts for these years applying
the new grant date fair value methodology. Assumptions made in the calculation of these amounts are included in Note 16 to the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2009, included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 16, 2010. 
        (3)   The amounts in the Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation column reflect the annual incentive compensation
earned during 2009 under the Company's Executive Annual Incentive Plan. As noted in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, no amounts were earned during 2009 with respect 
55



 
Table of Contents

to
the Performance Unit Plan awards for the three-year performance period ended December 31, 2009. The amounts reported for 2008 include a corrective payment made in August 2009
with respect to the Performance Unit Plan awards for the three-year performance period ended December 31, 2008. 
        (4)   The amounts in the Change in Pension Value and Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Earnings column reflect the actuarial
increase in the present value of each individual's pension benefits under all defined benefit pension plans of the Company, determined using the same interest rate and mortality assumptions as those
used for financial statement reporting purposes. See Note 11 to the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, included in the Company's Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 16, 2010. There were no above-market earnings on deferred compensation under the Company's
nonqualified deferred compensation programs. 
        (5)   See the All Other Compensation table below for details. 
        (6)   No amounts are reported for Mr. Lobey for the years 2008 and 2007 or for Mr. Sauer for the year 2007 since
they were not Named Executive Officers of the Company for those years. 
 
 
  All Other Compensation Table     












































 
 


2009 All Other Compensation 
 


 
 
401(k)
Company
Match
(1) 
 
VIP Excess
Company
Match(2) 
 
Executive
Life
Insurance(3) 
 
Financial
Planning 
 
Personal
Aircraft
Use(4) 
 
Security
Systems/
Services(5) 
 
Relocation
(6) 
 
Personal
Auto
Use(7) 
 
Tax
Gross
Ups(8) 
 
3M
Products
(9) 
 
Total 
 


 George W. Buckley
 
 $
10,350
 
 $
66,375
 
 $
0
 
 $
13,864
 
 $
145,157
 
 $
35,231
 
 $
0
 
 $
50,607
 
 $
0
 
 $
705
 
 $
322,289
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
 

10,853
 
 

0
 
 

63,152
 
 

14,273
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

232
 
 

88,510
 


 Inge G. Thulin
 
 

8,820
 
 

17,820
 
 

86,509
 
 

13,230
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

491
 
 

126,870
 


 Jean Lobey
 
 

11,025
 
 

19,890
 
 

61,504
 
 

12,856
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

329,364
 
 

9,192
 
 

1,812
 
 

28
 
 

445,671
 


 Bradley T. Sauer
 
 

8,820
 
 

17,172
 
 

34,973
 
 

13,230
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

70
 
 

74,265
 


 
 




FOOTNOTES TO ALL OTHER COMPENSATION TABLE 
        (1)   The amounts shown reflect 3M matching contributions under the tax-qualified 3M Voluntary
Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan. All eligible employees under this Plan may receive 3M matching contributions on their pre-tax contributions to the Plan on up to
six percent of their eligible pay. 
        (2)   The amounts shown reflect 3M matching contributions under the non-qualified defined contribution plan
known as the VIP Excess Plan. Eligibility for this plan and its matching contributions is limited to employees whose compensation exceeds a limit established by Federal income tax law for
qualified defined contribution plans. 
        (3)   The amounts shown reflect the amount of premiums paid by the Company on behalf of each individual with respect to their
respective whole life or universal life insurance policies obtained for them under the Executive Life Insurance Plan. 
        (4)   This amount reflects the aggregate incremental cost to the Company for Mr. Buckley's personal use of corporate
aircraft during 2009. This aggregate incremental cost was calculated by combining the variable operating costs of such travel, including the cost of fuel, landing fees, on-board catering,
and crew travel expenses. 
        (5)   This amount reflects the expenses paid by 3M during 2009 for monitoring service fees and for services and materials
needed to complete several projects improving the personal security of Mr. Buckley and his family at their residences. 
56



 
Table of Contents
        (6)   This amount reflects relocation expenses paid by 3M during 2009 in connection with Mr. Lobey's assignment to
Belgium, pursuant to the Company's relocation policy for such assignments. The expenses include the cost of moving household goods, reimbursing the loss on sale of his home, closing costs upon the
sale of his home, a home sale bonus, visa/passport fees, travel expenses for a home finding trip, a resettlement allowance, residence permits, and tax equalization. 
        (7)   This amount reflects the aggregate incremental cost to the Company for personal use of Company-provided automobiles and
local ground transportation. These costs include lease payments (or the amortized purchase cost) for the vehicles, fuel, insurance premiums, and maintenance. 
        (8)   This amount reflects additional compensation paid by the Company for the purpose of reimbursing Mr. Lobey for the
income taxes payable with respect to income imputed to him as a result of the Company's payment of certain relocation expenses as well as in connection with tax equalization payments. 
        (9)   These amounts reflect the aggregate incremental cost to the Company of providing certain 3M products to the
individuals for their personal use. 
 2009 Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table  
































 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All
Other
Stock
Awards:
Number
of Shares
of Stock
or Units
(#) 
 
All
Other
Option
Awards:
Number of
Securities
Underlying
Obligations
(#)(2) 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
Estimated Future Payouts Under Non-Equity Incentive Plan Awards(1) 
 
Exercise
or Base
Price of
Option
Awards
($/sh)(3) 
 
Grant
Date Fair
Value of
Stock and
Option
Awards ($)(4) 
 


Name



 
Grant
Date 
 
Target
($) 
 
Maximum
($) 
 


 



 George W. Buckley
 
 
n/a
 
 
2,795,000
 
 
8,280,000
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
02/09/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
289,044
 
 
54.11
 
 
3,757,572
 


 



 
 
03/12/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
226
(5)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10,830
 


 



 
 
06/12/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
178
(5)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10,876
 


 



 
 
09/12/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
147
(5)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10,913
 


 



 
 
12/12/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
134
(5)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10,943
 


 



 
 
02/09/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
72,261
(6)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3,910,043
 


 



 
 
09/01/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5,420
(7)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
380,050
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
 

n/a
 
 

508,400
 
 

8,280,000
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
02/09/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
81,464
 
 
54.11
 
 
1,059,032
 


 
 
 
02/09/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17,964
(6)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
972,032
 


 



 Inge G. Thulin
 
 

n/a
 
 

396,000
 
 

8,280,000
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
02/09/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
59,584
 
 
54.11
 
 
774,592
 


 



 
 
08/11/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6,073
 
 
71.34
 
 
79,556
 


 



 
 
02/09/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12,937
(6)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
700,021
 


 Jean Lobey
 
 
n/a
 
 
353,600
 
 
8,280,000
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
02/09/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
58,772
 
 
54.11
 
 
764,036
 


 
 
 
02/09/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12,937
(6)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
700,021
 


 



 Bradley T. Sauer
 
 

n/a
 
 

381,600
 
 

8,280,000
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
02/09/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
59,216
 
 
54.11
 
 
769,808
 


 



 
 
10/27/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14,215
 
 
76.00
 
 
200,289
 


 



 
 
02/09/09
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12,937
(6)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
700,021
 


 
 




FOOTNOTES TO GRANTS OF PLAN-BASED AWARDS TABLE 
        (1)   The amounts shown as the Estimated Future Payouts Under Non-Equity Incentive Plan Awards reflect the target
and maximum amounts that may be earned by each individual during 2009 under the Executive Annual Incentive Plan. This Plan establishes a maximum amount of annual incentive compensation that may be
earned by each covered executive during a plan year, which for each of the Named Executive Officers was one-quarter of one percent of the Company's adjusted net income for 
57



 
Table of Contents

2009,
and then provides the Compensation Committee with the discretion to pay each covered executive less than this maximum amount based on such factors as it deems relevant. These factors include,
but are not limited to, individual performance, each individual's target annual incentive, and the performance of the Company and its business units as measured by the three metrics used to determine
payouts under the Company's broad-based annual incentive plan (see "Elements of the Compensation Program — Short-term incentive" in the Compensation Discussion and
Analysis of this proxy statement). While the Committee considers and is guided by the amounts that would be payable under the annual incentive plan (based on the performance of 3M and its business
units) if the Named Executive Officers were covered by such plan, it is not bound by these results and may exercise its discretion to pay different amounts. 
        (2)   The amounts shown as the All Other Option Awards reflect the numbers of nonqualified stock options granted to each
individual during 2009 under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The options granted on February 9, 2009, were part of the Company's annual grant of stock options to the
approximately 5,000 employees participating in the Plan. The options granted to Mr. Sauer on October 27, 2009, and to Mr. Thulin on August 11, 2009, represent progressive
stock options (commonly referred to as a reloads) issued upon their exercise (via a stock swap, using shares of 3M common stock already owned by the optionee) of nonqualified options granted under
pre-2005 versions of the Management Stock Ownership Program which provided for the receipt of such reloads when the optionee makes payment of the exercise price in shares of the Company's
common stock. 3M offered progressive stock options with respect to nonqualified stock options granted before May 2005 to encourage executives to acquire and accumulate actual shares of 3M common stock
by exercising their stock options early rather than holding such options until the end of their term and then immediately selling the shares acquired upon exercise. Stock options granted by the
Company since May 2005 have not been eligible for the grant of new progressive stock options upon their exercise. 
        (3)   The exercise price for all stock options granted under the Company's equity plans is set at the fair market value of a
share of 3M common stock on the option grant date (as required by the provisions of the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan). As provided in the plan documents for these plans, the fair market
value of a share of 3M common stock is computed as the closing price at which 3M common stock traded on the New York Stock Exchange on the applicable date. 
        (4)   The amounts in the Grant Date Fair Value of Stock and Option Awards column were determined in accordance with Financial
Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, Compensation — Stock Compensation. Assumptions made in the calculation of these amounts are included
in Note 16 to the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 16, 2010. 
        (5)   These amounts reflect additional grants of restricted stock units to Mr. Buckley in lieu of dividend equivalents
on a portion of his outstanding restricted stock units, as required by his employment agreement. 
        (6)   These amounts reflect the number of restricted stock units granted to each individual during 2009 under the 2008
Long-Term Incentive Plan. As discussed in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, the restricted stock units grants granted on February 9, 2009, were made to replace the portion
of each individual's annual long-term incentive compensation normally provided in the form of performance shares. These restricted stock units vest three years following the grant date assuming
continued employment. 
        (7)   This one-time grant of restricted stock units was made to Mr. Buckley in performance of the Company's
obligation to pay him $95,000 in annual life insurance premiums for the years 2009-2012 under his employment agreement. 
58



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REGARDING THE EMPLOYMENT  AGREEMENTS OF THE NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS     
        Some of the grants and compensation reflected in the above tables are a direct result of the employment agreements that the Company has
entered into with two of the Named Executive Officers. The following summary identifies the material terms of these agreements that impacted the compensation of, and grants to, these individuals
during 2009. 
 George W. Buckley  
        3M has entered into an employment agreement with George W. Buckley providing for his employment as President and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company and for his election as Chairman of the Board of Directors of 3M. The agreement became effective December 6, 2005, and has an initial term of three years. Beginning on
December 6, 2006, the agreement automatically extends itself so that the remaining term of the agreement is always two years. However, the term will end on Mr. Buckley's
65th birthday (February 23, 2012) unless the parties otherwise agree. The Company and Mr. Buckley have amended the agreement on several occasions, and this summary reflects the
agreement as amended. 
        The
agreement requires that Mr. Buckley receive an annual base salary of $1,600,000. This base salary will be reviewed at least annually and may be increased by the Compensation
Committee of the Board, but may not be decreased without Mr. Buckley's consent. The agreement also requires that Mr. Buckley be eligible to participate in the Company's Executive Profit
Sharing Plan (subsequently replaced by the Executive Annual Incentive Plan), with a target annual bonus which is the greater of $2,600,000 and 150 percent of his annual base salary. 
        Pursuant
to the agreement, the Company granted to Mr. Buckley nonqualified options to purchase 250,000 shares of 3M common stock at the fair market value of a share of 3M common
stock on the effective date of such agreement ($78.15). These options have a ten-year term, and become exercisable in increments of 20 percent on each of the first five
anniversaries of the grant date assuming continued employment with the Company. These options become vested and exercisable in full upon Mr. Buckley's death or termination due to disability,
upon a termination of his employment by the Company without Cause, upon a termination of his employment by Mr. Buckley for Good Reason, or upon a change in control of the Company. 
        Pursuant
to the agreement, Mr. Buckley was also granted as of the agreement's effective date 50,000 restricted stock units with respect to shares of 3M common stock. These
restricted stock units will vest in increments of 20 percent on each of the first five anniversaries of the grant date assuming continued employment with the Company. Dividend equivalents in
the form of additional restricted stock units will be provided during the vesting period. These restricted stock units become vested in full upon Mr. Buckley's death or termination due to
disability, upon a termination of his employment by the Company without Cause, upon a termination of his employment by Mr. Buckley for Good Reason, or upon a change in control of the Company.
Mr. Buckley may not sell or otherwise dispose of the shares of 3M common stock received upon the vesting of these restricted stock units (except as required to pay withholding taxes) prior to
the termination of his employment without the consent of the Compensation Committee of the Board. 
        In
order to replace the unvested restricted stock units that he forfeited as a result of leaving his previous employer, the agreement required the Company to grant Mr. Buckley (on
the effective date of the agreement) 157,808 restricted stock units with respect to shares of 3M common stock. Twenty-five thousand of these restricted stock units vested on
December 31, 2006, and the remaining 132,808 restricted stock units will vest on December 6, 2010, assuming continued employment with the Company. Dividend equivalents in the form of
cash will be paid to Mr. Buckley during the vesting period. These restricted stock units become vested in full upon Mr. Buckley's death or termination due to 
59



 
Table of Contents

disability,
upon a termination of his employment by the Company without Cause, upon a termination of his employment by Mr. Buckley for Good Reason, or upon a change in control of the Company.
Mr. Buckley may not sell or otherwise dispose of the shares of 3M common stock received upon the vesting of these restricted stock units (except as required to pay withholding taxes) prior to
the termination of his employment without the consent of the Compensation Committee of the Board. 
        As
amended, the agreement gives Mr. Buckley (while he remains employed by the Company) the right to have the Company purchase one of his residences in Illinois or Minnesota at its
then prevailing value (to be determined by an appraiser mutually agreeable to both parties) if he is unable to complete the sale of such residence within 120 days after electing to exercise
this right. 
        The
agreement provides that Mr. Buckley will be eligible for the same perquisites that the Company makes available to its other senior executives. Mr. Buckley, along with
members of his family and invited guests, is allowed to use the aircraft owned by the Company for personal travel. The Company will provide Mr. Buckley with an automobile and driver for travel
in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, and with an additional luxury automobile for which the Company will pay all insurance, maintenance, gasoline, and other operating expenses. The
Company will provide appropriate security at Mr. Buckley's personal residences. 
        The
agreement provides that Mr. Buckley will earn a supplemental retirement benefit payable in the form of an annuity over his lifetime (or, if he so chooses, in the form of an
annuity payable over his lifetime and the lifetime of a joint annuitant) beginning following his termination of employment. The amount of this benefit will be the amount by which (a) a single
life annuity payable for Mr. Buckley's lifetime commencing at age 60 (or, if later, on the date of his termination of employment) equal to 40 percent of his highest average annual cash
compensation (base salary plus bonus) during any three consecutive years during his final ten years of employment (but not less than a minimum amount of $4,200,000), exceeds (b) the sum of his
actual pension benefits payable at age 60 (or, if later, on the date of his termination of employment) under the plans of the Company and his previous employers. The benefit formula for this
supplemental retirement benefit increases by 2 percent (from 40 percent) for each full year following Mr. Buckley's 60th birthday that he remains employed by the Company,
up to a maximum of 50 percent. This supplemental retirement benefit vests in full on December 6, 2010, upon Mr. Buckley's death or termination due to disability, upon a
termination of his employment by the Company without Cause, or upon a termination of his employment by Mr. Buckley for Good Reason. In the event that the payments of this supplemental
retirement benefit received by Mr. Buckley prior to his death (or by Mr. Buckley and his joint annuitant prior to their deaths) are less than the actuarially equivalent
lump-sum value of such annuity payments determined at the time the payments commence, the Company will pay in a lump sum to his beneficiary (or to Mr. Buckley's estate, if the
beneficiary is deceased) the amount by which such actuarially equivalent lump-sum value exceeds the amount of payments received prior to his death (or prior to the deaths of
Mr. Buckley and his joint annuitant). 
 Patrick D. Campbell  
        3M entered into an employment agreement with Patrick D. Campbell at the time he was hired to serve as the Senior Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. While most of this agreement's terms expired on the third anniversary of his employment commencement date (February 1, 2005), several of its
provisions survived and remain in effect today. The Company and Mr. Campbell amended the agreement during 2008, and this summary reflects the agreement as amended. 
        The
agreement requires the Company to provide Mr. Campbell supplemental retirement benefits payable in the form of a lump sum following the termination of his employment. If he
remains employed by 3M for at least ten years, the amount of this lump sum will be the actuarially equivalent present value of an annuity payable for his lifetime commencing at age 60 and based
on 45 percent of his highest 
60



 
Table of Contents

average
annual compensation (base salary plus profit sharing or annual incentive) over a four-year period. If Mr. Campbell is employed by 3M for less than ten years, the amount of
the lump sum and the lifetime annuity upon which the lump sum is based will be prorated accordingly (proration would reduce these amounts by a percentage determined by dividing the number ten less the
number of years he was employed by 3M by the number ten). The amount of such benefits will be reduced by the amount of his benefits under 3M's other pension plans and the pension plans of his prior
employer. Since Mr. Campbell has completed more than five years of employment with the Company, these supplemental retirement benefits are fully vested. 
61




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
        2009 OUTSTANDING EQUITY AWARDS AT FISCAL YEAR-END TABLE     



































 
 


 
 
Option Awards
 
Stock Awards
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


Name
 
Number of
Securities
Underlying
Unexercised
Options (#)
Exercisable
 
Number of
Securities
Underlying
Unexercised
Options (#)
Unexercisable
 
Option
Exercise
Price ($)
 
Option
Expiration
Date
 
Number of
Shares or
Units of Stock
That Have Not
Vested (#)
 
Market Value
of Shares or
Units of Stock
That Have Not
Vested ($)
 
Equity
Incentive Plan
Awards:
Number of
Unearned
Shares, Units
or Other
Rights That
Have Not
Vested (#)
 
Equity
Incentive Plan
Awards:
Market or
Payout Value
of Unearned
Shares, Units
or Other
Rights That
Have Not
Vested ($)
 


 
 


 



 George W. Buckley
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10,842
(11)
 
896,308
 


 



 
 
200,000
 
 
50,000
(1)
 
78.150
 
 
12/06/2015
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
286,807
 
 
 
 
 
87.350
 
 
05/09/2016
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
124,557
 
 
64,167
(2)
 
84.780
 
 
05/08/2017
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
73,422
 
 
146,846
(3)
 
77.180
 
 
05/13/2018
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
289,044
(4)
 
54.110
 
 
02/08/2019
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
144,248
(7)
 
11,924,982
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
72,261
(8)
 
5,973,817
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4,065
(9)
 
336,054
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2,717
(11)
 
224,614
 


 
 
 
9,395
 
 
 
 
 
55.975
 
 
02/01/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
40,000
 
 
 
 
 
64.500
 
 
05/14/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
44,000
 
 
 
 
 
61.850
 
 
05/13/2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
64,873
 
 
 
 
 
84.400
 
 
05/09/2014
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
7,289
 
 
 
 
 
80.950
 
 
02/01/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
71,185
 
 
 
 
 
76.800
 
 
05/08/2015
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
73,000
 
 
 
 
 
87.350
 
 
05/09/2016
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
29,959
 
 
15,434
(2)
 
84.780
 
 
05/08/2017
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
19,671
 
 
 
 
 
89.650
 
 
02/01/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
17,155
 
 
34,313
(3)
 
77.180
 
 
05/13/2018
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
81,464
(4)
 
54.110
 
 
02/08/2019
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17,585
(8)
 
1,453,752
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 Inge G. Thulin
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,985
(11)
 
164,100
 


 



 
 
1,704
 
 
 
 
 
58.625
 
 
05/06/2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
14,096
 
 
 
 
 
58.625
 
 
05/06/2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
36,000
 
 
 
 
 
64.500
 
 
05/14/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
34,000
 
 
 
 
 
61.850
 
 
05/13/2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
56,114
 
 
 
 
 
84.400
 
 
05/09/2014
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
67,975
 
 
 
 
 
76.800
 
 
05/08/2015
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
52,000
 
 
 
 
 
87.350
 
 
05/09/2016
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
30,200
 
 
15,558
(2)
 
84.780
 
 
05/08/2017
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
16,930
 
 
33,862
(3)
 
77.180
 
 
05/13/2018
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
59,584
(4)
 
54.110
 
 
02/08/2019
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
6,073
(5)
 
71.340
 
 
05/07/2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25,481
(10)
 
2,106,514
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12,664
(8)
 
1,046,945
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Jean Lobey
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,985
(11)
 
164,100
 


 
 
 
5,254
 
 
 
 
 
43.350
 
 
05/07/2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
14,096
 
 
 
 
 
58.625
 
 
05/06/2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
1,704
 
 
 
 
 
58.625
 
 
05/06/2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
16,590
 
 
 
 
 
64.500
 
 
05/14/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
17,380
 
 
 
 
 
61.850
 
 
05/13/2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
18,762
 
 
 
 
 
84.400
 
 
05/09/2014
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
39,037
 
 
 
 
 
76.800
 
 
05/08/2015
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
47,000
 
 
 
 
 
87.350
 
 
05/09/2016
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
21,252
 
 
10,948
(2)
 
84.780
 
 
05/08/2017
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
12,542
 
 
25,086
(3)
 
77.180
 
 
05/13/2018
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
58,772
(4)
 
54.110
 
 
02/08/2019
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12,687
(8)
 
1,048,834
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 Bradley T. Sauer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,985
(11)
 
164,100
 


 



 
 
20,600
 
 
 
 
 
64.500
 
 
05/14/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
25,866
 
 
 
 
 
61.850
 
 
05/13/2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
40,000
 
 
 
 
 
84.400
 
 
05/09/2014
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
1,228
 
 
 
 
 
77.200
 
 
05/07/2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
63,122
 
 
 
 
 
76.800
 
 
05/08/2015
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
470
 
 
 
 
 
75.200
 
 
05/06/2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
879
 
 
 
 
 
75.200
 
 
05/07/2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
52,000
 
 
 
 
 
87.350
 
 
05/09/2016
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
4,892
 
 
 
 
 
87.500
 
 
05/06/2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
25,726
 
 
13,253
(2)
 
84.780
 
 
05/08/2017
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
1,497
 
 
 
 
 
88.650
 
 
05/13/2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
5,599
 
 
 
 
 
88.650
 
 
05/06/2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
15,169
 
 
30,339
(3)
 
77.180
 
 
05/13/2018
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
59,216
(4)
 
54.110
 
 
02/08/2019
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
14,215
(6)
 
76.000
 
 
05/13/2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25,481
(10)
 
2,106,514
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12,937
(8)
 
1,069,502
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






62



 
Table of Contents
FOOTNOTES TO OUTSTANDING EQUITY AWARDS
AT FISCAL YEAR-END TABLE 
        (1)   These stock options vest in full on December 6, 2010. 
        (2)   These stock options vest in full on May 8, 2010. 
        (3)   These stock options vest in installments of one-half on May 13, 2010, and May 13, 2011. 
        (4)   These stock options vest in installments of one-third on each of February 8, 2010, February 8,
2011, and February 8, 2012. 
        (5)   As progressive stock options, these options vest in full on February 11, 2010 (6 months following the grant
date). 
        (6)   As progressive stock options, these options vest in full on April 27, 2010 (6 months following the grant
date). 
        (7)   These restricted stock units vest in full on December 6, 2010. 
        (8)   These restricted stock units vest in full on February 9, 2012. 
        (9)   These restricted stock units vest in installments of one-third on each of December 31, 2010,
December 31, 2011, and the earlier of December 31, 2012, or Mr. Buckley's last day of employment with the Company. 
        (10) These restricted stock units vest in full on March 3, 2012. 
        (11) The shares of 3M common stock to be delivered as a result of the Company's performance over the three-year
performance period ending December 31, 2010, will not vest until December 31, 2010. Under the terms of the 3M Performance Unit Plan, these shares of 3M common stock will be delivered no
later than March 15, 2011. 
 
 
        2009 OPTION EXERCISES AND STOCK VESTED TABLE     























 
 


 
 
Option Exercises and Stock Vested
 


 
 


 
 
Option Awards 
 
Stock Awards 
 


Name



 
Number of Shares
Acquired on
Exercise (#) 
 
Value Realized
on Exercise ($) 
 
Number of Shares
Acquired on
Vesting (#) 
 
Value Realized
on Vesting ($) 
 


 George W. Buckley
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
12,521
 
 
979,709
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
379
 
 
28,143
 


 Inge G. Thulin
 
 
4,144
 
 
295,574
 
 
5,198
 
 
407,520
 


 Jean Lobey
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
3,113
 
 
243,696
 


 Bradley T. Sauer
 
 
3,027
 
 
229,980
 
 
3,987
 
 
181,249
 






63



 
Table of Contents
 
 
         PENSION BENEFITS     
        The following table shows the present value of the accumulated benefits payable to each of the Named Executive Officers, as well as the
number of years of service credited to each individual, under each of the Company's defined benefit pension plans (including any supplemental arrangements pursuant to their employment agreements)
determined using the same interest rate and mortality assumptions as those used for financial statement reporting purposes. See Note 11 to the Company's audited financial statements for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 16, 2010. 






















 
 


 
 
2009 Pension Benefits Table
 


 
 


Name



 
Plan Name 
 
Number
of Years
Credited
Service (#) 
 
Present
Value of
Accumulated
Benefits ($) 
 
Payments
During
Last
Fiscal
Year ($) 
 






 George W. Buckley
 
Employee Retirement Income Plan
 
 
4
 
 
158,572
 
 
0
 






 
 
Nonqualified Pension Plan
 
 
4
 
 
3,171,671
 
 
0
 






 
 
Supplemental Retirement Plan
 
 
4
 
 
8,853,142
 
 
0
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
Employee Retirement Income Plan
 
 
7
 
 
241,064
 
 
0
 


 
 
Nonqualified Pension Plan
 
 
7
 
 
1,412,772
 
 
0
 


 
 
Supplemental Retirement Plan
 
 
7
 
 
2,639,202
 
 
0
 






 Inge G. Thulin
 
Employee Retirement Income Plan
 
 
30
 
 
883,610
 
 
0
 






 
 
Nonqualified Pension Plan
 
 
30
 
 
3,198,323
 
 
0
 


 Jean Lobey
 
Employee Retirement Income Plan
 
 
33
 
 
223,042
 
 
0
 


 
 
Nonqualified Pension Plan
 
 
33
 
 
2,281,303
 
 
0
 






 Bradley T. Sauer
 
Employee Retirement Income Plan
 
 
27
 
 
578,503
 
 
0
 






 
 
Nonqualified Pension Plan
 
 
27
 
 
2,225,977
 
 
0
 






        The
Employee Retirement Income Plan ("ERIP") is a tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan maintained by 3M for its eligible employees in the United States. Effective
January 1, 2001, the Company amended the ERIP to include a pension equity formula for (1) employees hired or rehired on or after January 1, 2001, and (2) employees who
voluntarily elected the pension equity formula during the one-time choice election period in 2001. Of the Named Executive Officers, Mr. Thulin and Mr. Sauer participate under
the non-pension equity formula of the ERIP (the Portfolio I Plan), while Mr. Buckley, Mr. Campbell, and Mr. Lobey participate under the pension equity formula
of the ERIP (the Portfolio II Plan). Retirement benefits under the ERIP are based on an employee's years of service and average annual earnings during the employee's four
highest-paid consecutive years of service. As applied to the Named Executive Officers, earnings for purposes of the ERIP include base salary, profit sharing, and annual incentive
compensation. 
        Under
the Portfolio I Plan, employees earn annual benefits payable at retirement generally equal to 1.15 percent of their high-four average annual earnings
multiplied by their years of service plus 0.35 percent of their high-four average annual earnings in excess of a Social Security breakpoint multiplied by their years of service (up
to a maximum of 35 years). The Social Security breakpoint is an average of the Social Security taxable wage bases for each of the 35 years ending with the year each employee qualifies
for receiving unreduced Social Security retirement benefits. Under the Portfolio I Plan, an employee may retire with an unreduced pension at age 60 (61 or 62 for employees born after 1942) and
if the employee's age and service at the time of retirement total at least 90 (91 or 92 for employees born after 1942) the employee would receive a Social Security bridge payment until age 62. 
64



 
Table of Contents
Mr. Thulin
is eligible to retire with reduced early retirement benefits under the Portfolio I Plan, with the reduction being equal to 5 percent of the pension otherwise payable
for each year that he retires prior to age 61. 
        Under
the Portfolio II Plan, employees earn pension credits (from 3 percent to 12 percent) for each year of employment based on their age and accumulated years of
service under the Plan. Once their employment ends, these accumulated pension credits are multiplied by their high-four average annual earnings and added to an amount determined by
multiplying one-half of these accumulated pension credits by their high-four average annual earnings in excess of a Social Security integration level (70 percent of the
Social Security taxable wage base in the year employment ends). The sum of these two amounts is then converted into an annuity payable over the lifetime of the employee using fixed conversion factors.
The Portfolio II Plan does not provide any subsidies for early retirement. 
        As
a tax-qualified plan, the ERIP is subject to a variety of limits that apply to both the amount of any employee's earnings that may be considered when determining the
benefits earned under the plan as well as the maximum amount of benefits that any employee may earn. The Nonqualified Pension Plan is designed to provide additional benefits to employees, including
the Named Executive Officers, affected by these limits. The amount of benefits earned under this Nonqualified Pension Plan generally equal the amount of benefits an employee was not able to earn under
the ERIP as a result of the limits imposed by Federal tax laws. The benefits earned under this Nonqualified Pension Plan are generally paid in the form of a single lump-sum cash payment
following the termination of their employment (subject to any applicable delay under Federal tax laws). Current employees were given a one-time opportunity during 2008 to elect to receive
their benefits earned under this Nonqualified Pension Plan in the form of a life annuity following their retirement, and both Mr. Buckley and Mr. Lobey did make this election to receive
their benefits in the form of a life annuity. 
        Mr. Buckley
and Mr. Campbell also earn supplemental retirement benefits pursuant to their employment agreements with the Company. These supplemental benefits, which were
negotiated at the time they agreed to leave their previous employers and join 3M, are designed to replace the
pension benefits they failed to earn under the plans of their previous employers because their accrued benefits under those plans do not grow with future increases in compensation. These supplemental
benefits are described in detail in the section titled "Additional Information Regarding the Employment Agreements of the Named Executive Officers" following the Grants of Plan-Based
Awards Table. 
65




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
         NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION     
        The following table reflects the participation during 2009 by the Named Executive Officers in two nonqualified deferred compensation
plans offered by the Company. The Deferred Compensation Plan allows eligible employees to defer for a number of years or until retirement from the Company the receipt of base salary, profit sharing,
annual incentive compensation, and Performance Unit Plan award payouts. The VIP Excess Plan allows eligible employees to defer until retirement from the Company the receipt of base salary, profit
sharing, and annual incentive compensation. Earnings are credited to the amounts deferred under both plans based on the returns paid on the investment funds available to participants in 3M's qualified
401(k) plan or a fixed rate of return based on corporate bond yields (as selected by each participant). 


























 
 


2009 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Table 
 


Name



 
Executive
Contributions
in Last FY ($)(1) 
 
Registrant
Contributions
in Last FY ($)(2) 
 
Aggregate
Earnings in
Last FY ($)(3) 
 
Aggregate
Withdrawals/
Distributions ($) 
 
Aggregate
Balance at Last
FYE ($)(4) 
 


 George W. Buckley
 
 
1,818,355
 
 
66,375
 
 
1,788,986
 
 
0
 
 
6,221,573
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

99,909
 
 

0
 
 

583,683
 


 Inge G. Thulin
 
 

29,700
 
 

17,820
 
 

925
 
 

0
 
 

48,445
 


 Jean Lobey
 
 

30,940
 
 

19,890
 
 

4,417
 
 

0
 
 

55,247
 


 Bradley T. Sauer
 
 

28,620
 
 

17,172
 
 

911
 
 

0
 
 

56,431
 






FOOTNOTES
TO NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION TABLE 
        (1)   All amounts contributed by these individuals during 2009 have been included in the Summary Compensation Table as Salary
or Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation earned in 2008 or 2009. 
        (2)   All amounts contributed by the Company on behalf of these individuals during 2009 are included in the "All Other
Compensation" column of the Summary Compensation Table. 
        (3)   None of these amounts are included in the Summary Compensation Table as compensation earned in 2009. 
        (4)   Of the amounts reported in this column, $3,820,969 of Mr. Buckley's balance at the end of 2009 and $112,088 of
Mr. Campbell's balance at the end of 2009 were reported previously as compensation in the Company's Summary Compensation Tables for prior years. 
66




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
         POTENTIAL PAYMENTS UPON TERMINATION OR CHANGE IN CONTROL     
        The Company has entered into employment agreements with two of the Named Executive Officers that will require it to
make payments to these individuals in the event of the termination of their employment or change in control of the Company. In addition, many of the Company's executive compensation, benefit, and
deferred compensation plans provide the Named Executive Officers with certain rights or the right to receive payments in the event of the termination of their employment or upon a change in control of
the Company. The amounts payable to each of the Named Executive Officers in each situation is reflected in the following table, assuming that each individual's employment had terminated or a change in
control of the Company had occurred on December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, Mr. Campbell, Mr. Lobey, and Mr. Thulin were eligible to retire under the
Company's pension plans. 































 
 


2009 Potential Payments upon Termination or Change in Control Table 
 


Name




 
Triggering Event 
 
Cash
Severance ($)(1) 
 
Outstanding
PUP
Awards ($)(2) 
 
Vested
Restricted
Stock/RSUs ($)(3) 
 
Vested
Options ($)(4) 
 
Supplemental
Pension ($)(5) 
 
Life
Insurance
Proceeds ($)(6) 
 


 



 George W. Buckley
 
  Resignation without Good Reason/ Termination for Cause
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 3,330,243
(10)
 
 0
 


 


 
  Resignation for Good Reason/Non-Cause Termination
 
 
 9,057,349
(7)
 
 0
 
 
 11,924,991
(9)
 
 226,000
(9)
 
 12,183,385
(10)
 
 0
 


 


 
  Change in Control
 
 
 0
 
 
 806,677
 
 
 18,234,861
 
 
 9,287,281
 
 
 3,171,671
 
 
 0
 


 


 
  Death
 
 
 0
 
 
 4,481,541
 
 
 18,234,861
 
 
 9,287,281
 
 
 12,183,385
 
 
 0
 


 


 
  Disability
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 18,234,861
 
 
 9,287,281
 
 
 12,183,385
(10)
 
 0
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
  Resignation without Good Reason/Termination for Cause
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

4,351,271
(11)
 

0
 


 
 
  Resignation for Good Reason/Non-Cause Termination
 
 
 1,271,000
(8)
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 4,351,271
(11)
 
 0
 


 
 
  Change in Control
 
 
 0
 
 
 202,153
 
 
 1,453,762
 
 
 2,514,990
 
 
 1,412,772
 
 
 0
 


 
 
  Death
 
 
 0
 
 
 1,123,072
 
 
 1,453,762
 
 
 2,514,990
 
 
 4,496,985
(12)
 
 2,777,165
 


 
 
  Disability
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 1,453,762
 
 
 2,514,990
 
 
 4,351,271
(11)
 
 0
 






 Inge G. Thulin
 
  Resignation without Good Reason/Termination for Cause
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

4,081,933
(13)
 

0
 


 


 
  Resignation for Good Reason/Non-Cause Termination
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 4,081,933
(13)
 
 0
 


 


 
  Change in Control
 
 
 0
 
 
 147,675
 
 
 3,153,459
 
 
 1,956,429
 
 
 3,198,323
 
 
 0
 


 


 
  Death
 
 
 0
 
 
 820,417
 
 
 3,153,459
 
 
 1,956,429
 
 
 2,040,966
(14)
 
 1,907,640
 


 


 
  Disability
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 3,153,459
 
 
 1,956,429
 
 
 4,081,933
(13)
 
 0
 


 Jean Lobey
 
  Resignation without Good Reason/Termination for Cause
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

2,504,345
(15)
 

0
 


 
 
  Resignation for Good Reason/Non-Cause Termination
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 2,504,345
(15)
 
 0
 


 
 
  Change in Control
 
 
 0
 
 
 147,675
 
 
 1,048,825
 
 
 1,816,250
 
 
 2,281,303
 
 
 0
 


 
 
  Death
 
 
 0
 
 
 820,417
 
 
 1,048,825
 
 
 1,816,250
 
 
 2,504,345
(16)
 
 1,810,700
 


 
 
  Disability
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 1,048,825
 
 
 1,816,250
 
 
 2,504,345
(15)
 
 0
 


 



 Bradley T. Sauer
 
  Resignation without Good Reason/Termination for Cause
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

2,804,480
(17)
 

0
 


 


 
  Resignation for Good Reason/Non-Cause Termination
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 2,804,480
(17)
 
 0
 


 


 
  Change in Control
 
 
 0
 
 
 147,675
 
 
 3,176,016
 
 
 1,952,584
 
 
 2,225,977
 
 
 0
 


 


 
  Death
 
 
 0
 
 
 820,417
 
 
 3,176,016
 
 
 1,952,584
 
 
 1,402,240
(18)
 
 1,682,416
 


 


 
  Disability
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 3,176,016
 
 
 1,952,584
 
 
 2,804,480
(17)
 
 0
 






67



 
Table of Contents
FOOTNOTES
TO POTENTIAL PAYMENTS UPON
TERMINATION OR CHANGE IN CONTROL TABLE 
        (1)   The amounts in this column reflect the amount of cash severance the Company would be obligated to pay these individuals
pursuant to their employment agreements, as described below. 
        (2)   The amounts in this column reflect the pro rata value of awards under the Performance Unit Plan for which the
three-year performance period has not been completed, and the value of awards under the Performance Unit Plan for which the three-year performance period has been completed but
which have not been paid out, and which would be paid upon the occurrence of the respective triggering events in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. 
        (3)   The amounts in this column reflect the value of unvested 3M restricted stock or restricted stock units that would vest
upon the occurrence of the respective triggering events in accordance with the provisions of the Management Stock Ownership Program, the Long-Term Incentive Plan, or the individual's
employment agreement. Share values are based on the closing market price of 3M common stock on December 31, 2009 ($82.67). 
        (4)   The amounts in this column reflect the spread value on December 31, 2009, of unvested,
in-the-money 3M stock options that will vest upon the occurrence of the respective triggering events in accordance with the provisions of the Management Stock Ownership
Program, the Long-Term Incentive Plan, or the individual's employment agreement. Spread values are based on the closing market price of 3M common stock on December 31, 2009
($82.67). 
        (5)   The amounts in this column reflect the present value of accumulated benefits under 3M's Employee Retirement Income Plan,
3M's Nonqualified Pension Plan and/or the individual's supplemental retirement arrangement based on such individual's employment agreement that would be paid to, or on behalf of, each individual upon
the occurrence of the respective triggering events. For additional information regarding the terms of the Nonqualified Pension Plan or those individual supplemental retirement arrangements, see the
explanation following the Pension Benefits Table and the summaries of these employment agreements in the section entitled "Additional Information Regarding the Employment Agreements of the Named
Executive Officers," following the Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table. Except as noted, all of these amounts would be paid in the form of a single lump-sum cash payment. 
        (6)   The amounts in this column reflect the life insurance proceeds that would be payable to each individual's beneficiary or
beneficiaries pursuant to the universal life insurance policies obtained for them under the Executive Life Insurance Plan. 
        (7)   Of this amount, $9,030,000 would be paid in cash in the form of 24 equal monthly installments of $376,250 each. The
remainder of this amount reflects the amounts the Company would need to pay or incur in order to provide continued medical ($19,840), dental ($3,011), life insurance ($4,080), and accidental
death & disability insurance ($418) benefits for a 24-month period following the termination of Mr. Buckley's employment, as required by his employment agreement. 
        (8)   This amount would be paid in the form of a single lump-sum cash payment. 
        (9)   The amounts in these columns reflect the remaining unvested 3M stock options and restricted stock units granted to
Mr. Buckley at the time his employment with the Company commenced in 2005, and which would have vested upon the occurrence of the respective triggering event under the terms of his employment
agreement with the Company. 
        (10) This amount would be paid in the form of monthly annuity payments over the lifetime of Mr. Buckley (or over the
lifetimes of Mr. Buckley and his designated beneficiary). 
        (11) Of this total, $241,064 would be paid in the form of monthly annuity payments over the lifetime of Mr. Campbell
(or over the lifetimes of Mr. Campbell and his designated beneficiary). 
68



 
Table of Contents
        (12) Of this total, $241,064 would be paid in the form of monthly annuity payments over the lifetime of Mr. Campbell's
surviving spouse if she elected to receive annuity payments in lieu of a single lump-sum cash payment following Mr. Campbell's death. 
        (13) Of this total, $883,610 would be paid in the form of monthly annuity payments over the lifetime of Mr. Thulin (or
over the lifetimes of Mr. Thulin and his designated beneficiary). 
        (14) Of this total, $441,805 would be paid in the form of monthly annuity payments over the lifetime of Mr. Thulin's
surviving spouse. 
        (15) This amount would be paid in the form of monthly annuity payments over the lifetime of Mr. Lobey (or over the
lifetimes of Mr. Lobey and his designated beneficiary). 
        (16) Of this total, $223,042 would be paid in the form of monthly annuity payments over the lifetime of Mr. Lobey's
surviving spouse if she elected to receive annuity payments in lieu of a single lump-sum cash payment following Mr. Lobey's death. 
        (17) Of this total, $578,503 would be paid in the form of monthly annuity payments over the lifetime of Mr. Sauer (or
over the lifetimes of Mr. Sauer and his designated beneficiary). 
        (18) Of this total, $289,251 would be paid in the form of monthly annuity payments over the lifetime of Mr. Sauer's
surviving spouse. 
 Generally Available Compensation and Benefit Plans  
        Each of 3M's Named Executive Officers is eligible to participate in and receive compensation or benefits under several plans of the
Company that provide for certain payments or rights in the event of the death of the individual or a change in control of the Company. Both of the Company's deferred compensation programs, the
Deferred Compensation Plan and the VIP Excess Plan (including its predecessor, the VIP Plus Plan), provide that the plans will terminate and pay out the account balances of all participants
immediately following a change in control of the Company. The Performance Unit Plan provides that the plan will terminate and the Company will immediately pay out the pro rata value of all outstanding
performance units immediately following a change in control of the Company (based on the higher of the value of the units for the most recently completed performance period or the value of the
outstanding units as if the performance of the Company during the remainder of each respective performance period equaled its performance to the date of the change in control). The Nonqualified
Pension Plan provides that, in the event of a change in control of the Company, the Plan will terminate and pay out the remaining accrued benefits of all participants in either an immediate
lump-sum cash payment or through the purchase of annuity contracts designed to pay the pension benefits that would otherwise have been paid following the retirement of each participant.
The Management Stock Ownership Program and the Long-Term Incentive Plan provide that all outstanding stock options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units will immediately vest in
full upon a change in control of the Company. All of these plans define a change in control of the Company as an event that satisfies the requirements of the applicable regulations under
Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. 
        The
amounts shown above for each of the Named Executive Officers do not include payments and benefits generally provided on a non-discriminatory basis to all similarly
situated salaried employees of the Company upon the termination of their employment with the Company, including: (a) accrued salary; (b) annual incentive earned with respect to completed
performance periods; (c) unused vacation benefits; (d) retiree welfare benefits provided to substantially all of the Company's U.S. employees, including retiree medical and dental
benefits; (e) distributions of account balances under the Company's qualified 401(k) plan; and (f) distribution of account balances in 3M's nonqualified deferred compensation plans, as
described in the 2009 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Table. 
69



 
Table of Contents
 George W. Buckley  
        Mr. Buckley's employment agreement with the Company provides that in the event the Company terminates his employment without
Cause or if he terminates his employment with Good Reason, he would receive: (a) cash severance equal to two times the sum of his annual base salary and target annual bonus payable in the form
of 24 equal monthly installments (or in the form of an immediate lump sum, subject to a six-month delay if required under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, if the
termination occurs within two years following a Change of Control of the Company); (b) a pro rata portion of the annual bonus that he would otherwise have earned for the year in which his
employment so terminates; (c) if a Change of Control of the Company causes any payment upon his termination of employment to be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the
Internal Revenue Code, a tax gross-up payment with which to pay such tax and the additional taxes payable as a result of such payment; and (d) immediate vesting of the stock
options, restricted stock units, performance units, and supplemental retirement benefits provided under the agreement, and continued welfare benefits for the period that cash severance benefits are
payable. No severance benefits (other than accrued salary, bonus, and benefits) are payable in the event of the termination of Mr. Buckley's employment by the Company for Cause or by
Mr. Buckley without Good Reason. In the event of the termination of Mr. Buckley's employment due to his death or disability, no severance benefits are payable (other than accrued salary,
bonus, and benefits, including the supplemental retirement benefits provided under the agreement) other than a pro rata portion of the annual bonus he would otherwise have earned for the year in which
his employment so terminates. If any payment or other benefit provided to Mr. Buckley pursuant to his employment agreement would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of
the Internal Revenue Code, Mr. Buckley would be entitled to receive a tax gross-up payment with which to pay such tax and the additional taxes payable as a result of such payment.
As a condition to receiving any cash severance, pro rata annual bonus, or supplemental retirement benefits, Mr. Buckley will sign and deliver to the Company a standard release of claims. In his
employment agreement with the Company and as confirmed in the release of claims, Mr. Buckley agrees that for a period of two years following the termination of his employment he will:
(1) neither employ nor seek to employ any employee of the Company or encourage them to leave the Company, and (2) neither acquire an ownership interest in or perform certain services for
a competitor of the Company. 
        For
purposes of Mr. Buckley's employment agreement, Cause means any of the following: (i) his commission of a felony or misdemeanor involving fraud, dishonesty, or moral
turpitude; (ii) his material breach of such employment agreement; (iii) willful or intentional material misconduct by Mr. Buckley in the performance of his duties;
(iv) willful and intentional failure by Mr. Buckley to materially comply with a specific, written direction of the Board of Directors that is consistent with normal business practice and
not inconsistent with his responsibilities under such employment agreement; (v) a material violation of the Company's conflict of interest policy; (vi) a material violation of any
Company policy that would be grounds for the immediate dismissal of any senior executive of the Company; or (vii) an order or determination of any court, administrative agency, or other entity
that has the effect of prohibiting Mr. Buckley from performing his responsibilities under such employment agreement. For purposes of Mr. Buckley's employment agreement, Good Reason means
any of the following (unless he agrees in writing that a specific event shall not be Good Reason): (i) the Company's material breach of his employment agreement; (ii) the Company's
failure to assign his employment agreement to a successor of the Company or such successor's failure to explicitly assume and agree to be bound by such agreement; (iii) a requirement that
Mr. Buckley be principally based at any office or location more than 30 miles from the Company's current headquarters in St. Paul, Minnesota; or (iv) upon or following a Change of
Control of the Company, the failure to nominate and elect Mr. Buckley to serve as the chief executive officer, chairman of the board, or most senior executive officer of the Company or its
top-tier parent entity. For purposes of Mr. Buckley's employment agreement, a Change of Control of the Company means any of the following (unless, solely for purposes of determining
whether the stock options granted to him at the time he commenced employment with the Company become vested upon 
70



 
Table of Contents

a
Change of Control of the Company, he agrees in writing that a specific event shall not be considered a Change of Control): (i) any person becomes the owner of 20 percent or more of the
voting securities of the Company; (ii) the members of the Board of Directors of the Company as of December 6, 2005, and their approved successors fail to constitute at least
50 percent of the members of such Board of Directors; (iii) a merger, consolidation, or reorganization involving the Company if the beneficial owners of the Company's voting securities
immediately before such transaction are not expected to own more than 50 percent of the voting power of such voting securities in the corporation resulting from such transaction; (iv) a
plan or agreement for the sale or other disposition of substantially all of the assets of the Company (other than to an entity more than 50 percent owned by the Company or an entity more than
50 percent owned by the beneficial owners of the voting securities of the Company immediately before the sale or other disposition); or (v) approval of a plan of liquidation by the
stockholders of the Company; provided, however, that for purposes of determining whether shares of 3M common stock or other remuneration are to be delivered to Mr. Buckley upon a Change of
Control with respect to the restricted stock units or performance units granted to him pursuant to his employment agreement and for purposes of determining whether the cash severance described above
shall be paid in a lump sum instead of installments on account of a termination of his employment without Cause or for Good Reason upon or prior to the second anniversary of a Change of Control, there
shall not be a Change of Control unless the event that would otherwise constitute a Change of Control satisfies the requirements of the applicable regulations under Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code. 
 Patrick D. Campbell  
        Mr. Campbell's employment agreement with the Company provides that in the event the Company terminates his employment without
Cause or if he terminates his employment with Good Reason, he would receive: (a) cash severance equal to two times the sum of his annual base salary and target annual profit sharing or annual
incentive if such termination occurs within the first five years following his employment commencement date and one times the sum of his annual base salary and target annual profit sharing or annual
incentive if such termination occurs more than five years but no more than ten years following his employment commencement date, (b) a period of two years following the termination date in
which to exercise the stock options granted to him at the time his employment commenced and the stock options he received as his annual stock option grant for 2002, and (c) immediate vesting of
the supplemental retirement benefits provided under the agreement. No severance benefits (other than accrued salary, profit sharing or annual incentive, and benefits) are payable in the event of the
termination of Mr. Campbell's employment by the Company for Cause or by Mr. Campbell without Good Reason. In the event of the termination of Mr. Campbell's employment due to his
death or disability, no severance benefits (other than accrued salary, profit sharing or annual incentive, and benefits, including the supplemental retirement benefits provided under the agreement)
are payable. If any payment or other benefit provided to Mr. Campbell pursuant to his employment agreement would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal
Revenue Code, Mr. Campbell would be entitled to receive a tax gross-up payment with which to pay such tax and the additional taxes payable as a result of such payment. As a
condition to receiving any cash severance, Mr. Campbell will sign and deliver to the Company a standard release of claims. 
        For
purposes of Mr. Campbell's employment agreement, Cause means any of the following: (i) his indictment on or commission of a felony or misdemeanor involving fraud,
dishonesty, or moral turpitude; (ii) his material breach of such employment agreement; (iii) willful or intentional material misconduct by Mr. Campbell in the performance of his
duties; or (iv) willful or intentional failure by Mr. Campbell to materially comply with a specific, written direction of the Chief Executive Officer that is consistent with normal
business practice and with his responsibilities under such employment agreement. For purposes of Mr. Campbell's employment agreement, Good Reason means any of the following (unless he agrees in
writing that a specific event shall not be Good Reason): (i) the Company reduces his annual planned cash compensation by more than 15 percent, (ii) his relocation to a primary
work site located more than 50 miles from his then current work site, or (iii) his reassignment to a position having primary responsibilities which are significantly less than those of his
immediate previous position. 
71




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION     
        The members of the Compensation Committee are named in the preceding section. No members of the Compensation Committee were officers or
employees of 3M or any of its subsidiaries during the year, were formerly 3M officers (except that Robert S. Morrison served as interim Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer from
June 30, 2005, to December 6, 2005), or had any relationship otherwise requiring disclosure. 
 
 
  AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT     
        The role of the Audit Committee includes assisting the Board of Directors in its oversight of the Company's financial reporting
process. In performing this oversight function, the Audit Committee has: 


•Reviewed and discussed the audited consolidated financial statements with management, which has primary responsibility for
the financial statements;   
•Discussed with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), the Company's independent registered public accounting firm, the
matters required to be discussed by the statement on Auditing Standards No. 61, as amended (AICPA, Professional Standards, Vol.1, AU Section 380), as adopted by the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board ("PCAOB") in Rule 3200T; and   
•Received the written disclosures and the letter from PwC required by applicable requirements of the PCAOB regarding PwC's
communications with the audit committee concerning independence, and has discussed with PwC its independence. 

        Based
upon the review and discussions described above, the Committee recommended to the Board of Directors that the audited consolidated financial statements be included in the Company's
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, for filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Submitted
by the Audit Committee 
Herbert
L. Henkel, Chair
Linda G. Alvarado
Michael L. Eskew
W. James Farrell
Edward M. Liddy 
 Audit Committee Policy on Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm  
        The Audit Committee is responsible for appointing and overseeing the work of the independent registered public accounting firm
("Independent Accounting Firm"). The Audit Committee has established the following procedures for the pre-approval of all audit and permissible non-audit services provided by
the Independent Accounting Firm. 
        Before
engagement of the Independent Accounting Firm for the next year's audit, the Independent Accounting Firm will submit to the Audit Committee for approval a detailed description of
services it expects to render to the Company during that year for each of the following categories of services: 
        1.     Audit
services include audit work performed in the preparation of consolidated financial statements, as well as work that generally only the Independent Accounting Firm
can reasonably be expected to provide, including comfort letters, statutory audits, and attest services and consultation regarding financial accounting and/or reporting standards. 
72



 
Table of Contents
        2.     Audit
related services are for assurance and related services that are traditionally performed by the Independent Accounting Firm, including due diligence related to
mergers and acquisitions, employee benefit plan audits, and special procedures required to meet certain regulatory requirements. 
        3.     Tax
services include all services performed by the Independent Accounting Firm's tax personnel except those services specifically related to the audit of the financial
statements, and includes fees in the areas of tax compliance, tax planning, and tax advice. 
        4.     Other
services are those services not captured in the other categories. 
        Before
engagement, the Audit Committee pre-approves these services by category of service. The fees are budgeted and the Audit Committee requires the Independent Accounting
Firm to report actual fees versus the budget periodically throughout the year by category of service. During the year, circumstances may arise when it may become necessary to engage the Independent
Accounting Firm for additional services not contemplated in the original pre-approval. In those instances, the Audit Committee requires specific pre-approval before engaging
the Independent Accounting Firm. 
        The
Audit Committee has delegated pre-approval authority to the chair of the Committee. The chair must report, for informational purposes only, any pre-approval
decisions to the Audit Committee at its next scheduled meeting. 
 
 
  FEES OF THE INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     
        The following table represents fees for professional services rendered by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the audit of the
Company's consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, and fees billed for other services rendered by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP during those periods
(amounts in millions). 
 Audit and Non-Audit Fees ($ in millions)  

















 
 
2008 
 
2009 
 


 Audit Fees: (1)
 
$
10.4
 
$
11.0
 


 Audit Related Fees: (2)
 
 
0.8
 
 
0.7
 


 Tax Fees: (3)
 
 
1.1
 
 
1.2
 


 All Other Fees:
 
 
0.0
 
 
0.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
12.3
 
$
12.9
 




(1)  Audit fees consisted of audit work and review services, as well as work generally only the independent registered public accounting
firm can reasonably be expected to provide, such as statutory audits, comfort letters, consents, and assistance with and review of documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
(2)  Audit related fees consisted principally of financial due diligence, audits of employee benefit plans, and other attest services. 
(3)  Tax fees consisted principally of tax planning and compliance. 
73




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBMISSION OF STOCKHOLDER PROPOSALS  FOR NEXT YEAR'S ANNUAL MEETING     
        In order for a stockholder proposal to be considered for inclusion in 3M's proxy statement for next year's Annual Meeting, our
Corporate Secretary must receive the proposal no later than 5 p.m. Central Time on November 24, 2010. Such proposals must be sent via registered, certified, or express mail (or other
means that allows the stockholder to determine when the proposal was received by the Corporate Secretary) to: Gregg M. Larson, Deputy General Counsel and Secretary, 3M Company,
3M Center, Building 220-13E-34, St. Paul, MN 55144-1000. Such proposals must contain the information required under 3M's Bylaws, and also must
comply with the SEC's regulations regarding the inclusion of stockholder proposals in Company sponsored proxy materials, such as the stockholder continuing to own a minimum number of shares until the
Annual Meeting and appearing in person or through an authorized representative at the meeting to present the proposal. 
        Alternatively,
stockholders intending to present a proposal at next year's Annual Meeting without having it included in the Company's proxy statement must comply with the requirements
set forth in the Company's Bylaws. Our Bylaws require, among other things, that our Corporate Secretary receive written notice from the stockholder no earlier than the close of business on
January 11, 2011, and no later than the close of business on February 10, 2011. The notice must contain the information required by the Bylaws, a copy of which is available at
www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance. 
        Proposals
received by the Corporate Secretary after the dates mentioned will not be included in the proxy statement or acted upon at the Annual Meeting. 
By
Order of the Board of Directors. 



GREGG
M. LARSON 
Deputy General Counsel and Secretary
74




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
 APPENDIX A     
 
  (Including amendments  through February 2010)     
 
    3M 2008 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN     
1.     Purposes.

The
purposes of this plan are to help 3M attract, retain and motivate outstanding employees to increase shareholder value by contributing to the long-term growth and success of its
business; to more closely align the financial interests of these employees with those of 3M's other shareholders by linking a significant portion of their compensation to the performance of the
Company and its stock price; to encourage employees to acquire an equity stake in the Company; to help 3M attract and retain well-qualified individuals to serve as nonemployee members of
its Board of Directors; and to promote the alignment of interests of these nonemployee directors with those of 3M's other shareholders by providing all or a portion of their compensation for serving
as directors in the form of 3M common stock. 
This
plan is intended to replace and succeed the 2005 Management Stock Ownership Program, the 3M Performance Unit Plan, and the 1992 Directors Stock Ownership Program. 

2.     Definitions.


(a)"Affiliate"
means any entity that is directly or indirectly controlled by the Company or in which the Company has a significant equity interest, as
determined by the Committee.
(b)"Award"
means any Incentive Stock Option, Nonqualified Stock Option, Progressive Stock Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock
Unit, Performance Unit, Performance Share or other Stock Award granted to a Participant under this Plan.
(c)"Code"
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
(d)"Committee"
means the Compensation Committee of 3M's Board of Directors.
(e)"Common
Stock" means the common stock of 3M Company with a par value of $0.01 per share.
(f)"Company"
means 3M Company, a Delaware corporation.
(g)"Disqualifying
Termination" means a termination of a Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate due to (i) a material violation of any
policy of the Company or such Affiliate, including, without limitation, any of the Company's Business Conduct Policies, or (ii) embezzlement from or theft of property belonging to the Company
or such Affiliate.
(h)"Dividend
Equivalents" means, on any dividend record date, that amount of cash or shares equal in value to the dividend payable on shares of Common Stock as
declared by 3M's Board of Directors with respect to such dividend record date.
(i)"Fair
Market Value" means the closing price for a share of Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions.
(j)"Full
Value Award" means any Award denominated or paid in shares of Common Stock other than an Option or Stock Appreciation Right.
(k)"Grant
Date" means the effective date of an Award granted to a Participant under this Plan. 

A-1



 
Table of Contents


(l)"Incentive
Stock Option" means an Option granted under this Plan which satisfies the requirements of section 422 of the Code and is so designated in
the written or electronic documents evidencing such Option.
(m)"Nonqualified
Stock Option" means an Option granted under this Plan which is not an Incentive Stock Option.
(n)"Option"
means a Participant's right to purchase a specified number of shares of Common Stock at a specified price for a specified period of time.
(o)"Participant"
means an employee of the Company or an Affiliate whose participation in the Plan has been approved by the Committee, or a nonemployee member
of 3M's Board of Directors.
(p)"Performance
Criteria" means such internal performance criteria for the Company or any business segment thereof as determined by the Committee with respect
to each Performance Unit or Performance Share and may include any one or more of several criteria, such as, but not limited to, return on capital employed, return on assets or net assets, net sales,
sales growth, sales or sales growth from new products, market share, cash flow or cash flow conversion, earnings per share, return on equity, stock price, gross margin or income, operating margin or
income, total shareholder return, stockholders' equity, retained earnings, economic value added, economic profit (after-tax operating income, excluding non-recurring items,
less the cost of capital), earnings before interest and taxes, EBITDA, operating income, improvements in certain asset or financial measures (including working capital, the ratio of sales to net
working capital and the ratio of debt to equity or to EBITDA), reductions in certain asset or cost areas (including reductions in inventories or accounts receivable or reductions in laboratory,
engineering, sales or administrative costs) or in debt, net income or variations of income criteria in varying time periods, adjusted net income, employee diversity, employee engagement or
satisfaction, customer satisfaction, or general comparisons with other peer companies or industry groups or classifications with regard to one or more of these criteria. The criteria may measure
performance on the basis of either the amount of a particular item during the Performance Period or on increases or decreases in the amount of such item during the Performance Period. Such criteria
shall include a target for payment of the Performance Unit or Performance Share at full face value and upper and lower limits for the measurement of payment to Participants.
(q)"Performance
Period" means a period of three years, unless determined otherwise by the Committee in its discretion, during which period or any portion
thereof the Performance Criteria shall be measured for purposes of calculating the payment with respect to each Performance Unit or Performance Share.
(r)"Performance
Share" means the right of a Participant to receive a payment in the form of shares of Common Stock based upon the performance of the Company
during a Performance Period as measured by the Performance Criteria approved by the Committee.
(s)"Performance
Unit" means the right of a Participant to receive a payment in cash or shares of Common Stock based upon the performance of the Company during
a Performance Period as measured by the Performance Criteria approved by the Committee.
(t)"Plan"
means this 3M 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
(u)"Predecessor
Plan" means the 1997 Management Stock Ownership Program, the 2002 Management Stock Ownership Program, and the 2005 Management Stock Ownership
Program.
(v)"Progressive
Stock Option" means a Nonqualified Stock Option granted to a Participant under this Plan upon the exercise of a nonqualified stock option
granted under the 1997 or the 2002 

A-2



 
Table of Contents


Management
Stock Ownership Programs where such Participant makes payment for all or part of the purchase price and withholding taxes in shares of Common Stock.  


(w)"Restricted
Period" means that period of time determined by the Committee during which a Participant shall not be permitted to sell or transfer shares of
Restricted Stock granted under this Plan, and during which a Participant's interest in Restricted Stock Units or Restricted Stock granted under this Plan remains subject to forfeiture. Unless
otherwise determined by the Committee, any time-based Restricted Period shall be at least three years.
(x)"Restricted
Stock" means shares of Common Stock granted to a Participant under the Plan subject to certain restrictions during the Restricted Period
established by the Committee.
(y)"Restricted
Stock Unit" means the right of a Participant to receive an amount of cash or Common Stock based on the Fair Market Value of a specified number
of shares of Common Stock following a Restricted Stock Period, subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may establish.
(z)"Retires"
or "Retirement" means the termination of a Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate after attaining age 55 with at least five
years of employment service.
(aa)"Stock
Appreciation Right" means a Participant's right to receive an amount of cash or shares of Common Stock equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value
of a specified number of shares of Common Stock on the date the right is exercised over the Fair Market Value of such number of shares of Common Stock on the Grant Date.
(bb)"Stock
Award" means any award of Common Stock under the Plan and may include Restricted Stock awards or other awards of Common Stock as determined
appropriate by the Committee. 

3.     Eligibility.

The
Committee will have the exclusive power and authority (except as it may delegate such power and authority as permitted herein) to select the executives and other employees of the Company and its
Affiliates who may participate in this Plan by receiving Awards made hereunder. All nonemployee members of the 3M Board of Directors shall also be eligible to participate in and receive Awards made
hereunder. 

4.     Shares Available for Awards.

Unless
otherwise authorized by the Company's stockholders, the total number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued or delivered pursuant to Awards granted under this Plan will be 64,000,000. Of
this total, no more than 64,000,000 may be issued or delivered upon the exercise of Incentive Stock Options. The necessary shares shall be made available at the discretion of the Board of Directors
from authorized but unissued shares, treasury shares, or shares reacquired by the Company under corporate repurchase programs. 
The
following rules shall apply for the purpose of determining the number of shares of Common Stock remaining available for issuance under the Plan: 

(a)If
an Award is denominated in a fixed number of shares of Common Stock on the Grant Date, the number of shares covered by such Award (as in the case of an
Option or Restricted Stock grant) or to which such Award relates (as in the case of a Stock Appreciation Right) will be counted on the Grant Date against the total number of shares available for
issuance or delivery under the Plan. If an Award is not denominated in a fixed number of shares of Common Stock on the Grant Date (but is potentially payable in such shares or the final number of
shares is not determined until the completion of a Performance Period), only the number of shares of 

A-3



 
Table of Contents


Common
Stock actually issued or delivered as a result of such Award, if any, shall be counted against the total number of shares available for issuance or delivery under the Plan. 


(b)Notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 4(a) above, each Full Value Award with a Grant Date on or after May 11, 2010 will be counted against
the total number of shares available for issuance or delivery under the Plan as 2.87 shares for every one share covered by such Award (Full Value Awards with Grant Dates prior to May 11, 2010
were counted against the total number of shares available for issuance or delivery under the Plan as 3.38 shares for every one share covered by such Award).
(c)When
an Award granted under this Plan and denominated in shares of Common Stock (or any portion thereof) expires, is cancelled, is forfeited or is otherwise
terminated without the issuance of such shares, or is settled in cash or consideration other than shares of Common Stock, then the shares of Common Stock previously counted against the total number of
shares available for issuance or delivery under the Plan on account of such Award (or portion thereof) will again be made available for issuance hereunder. When an award granted under a Predecessor
Plan and denominated in shares of Common Stock (or any portion thereof) expires, is cancelled, is forfeited or is otherwise terminated without the issuance of such shares, or is settled in cash or
consideration other than shares of Common Stock, then the shares of Common Stock previously counted against the total number of shares available for issuance or delivery under such Predecessor Plan on
account of such Award (or portion thereof) will be added to the total number of shares available for issuance or delivery under this Plan. Notwithstanding the rest of this Section 4(c), the
following shares of Common Stock will not be added to the total number of shares available or be made available again for issuance under this Plan: (i) shares not issued or delivered as a
result of the net settlement of an outstanding stock option or stock appreciation right; (ii) shares delivered to or withheld by the Company to pay the exercise price of or the withholding
taxes with respect to an award; and (iii) shares repurchased on the open market with the proceeds from the payment of the exercise price of an option.
(d)Any
shares of Common Stock related to Awards granted through the assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by a company
acquired by the Company or an Affiliate or with which the Company or any Affiliate combines, shall not be counted against the total number of shares available for issuance or delivery under the Plan. 

5.     Terms of Awards.

The
Committee shall determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to each Participant, which shall be evidenced by such written or electronic documents as the Committee shall authorize;
provided, however, that nonemployee members of the 3M Board of Directors shall not be eligible to receive Incentive Stock Options, Progressive Stock Options, Performance Units or Performance Shares.
The following types of Awards may be granted under this Plan: 

(a)Incentive
Stock Options — Incentive Stock Options granted hereunder shall have an exercise price equal to one hundred percent (100%) of
the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the Grant Date. Incentive Stock Options granted hereunder shall become exercisable at such time as shall be established by the Committee and
reflected in the documents evidencing such Options, and unless sooner terminated shall expire on the tenth anniversary of the Grant Date.
(b)Nonqualified
Stock Options — Nonqualified Stock Options granted hereunder shall have an exercise price equal to no less than one hundred
percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the Grant Date. Nonqualified Stock Options granted hereunder shall become exercisable and shall expire at such time or times as
shall be established by the 

A-4



 
Table of Contents


Committee
and reflected in the documents evidencing such Options; provided, however, that no Nonqualified Stock Option shall expire later than ten years after the Grant Date (except that the Committee
may extend the exercise period for Nonqualified Stock Options granted to Participants in any country or countries for an additional period of up to one year if and to the extent necessary to prevent
adverse tax consequences to such Participants under the laws of such country).  


(c)Progressive
Stock Options — Whenever a Participant exercises a nonqualified stock option granted under the 1997 or 2002 Management Stock
Ownership Program and makes payment of all or part of the purchase price and withholding taxes, if any, in Common Stock, the Committee may in its discretion grant such Participant a Progressive Stock
Option. The number of shares subject to such Progressive Stock Option shall be equal to the number of shares of Common Stock utilized by the Participant to effect payment of the exercise price and
withholding taxes, if any, for such nonqualified stock option. Each Progressive Stock Option granted hereunder shall have an exercise price equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value
of a share of Common Stock on the date of exercise of the nonqualified stock option, which shall be the Grant Date of such Progressive Stock Option. Each Progressive Stock Option granted hereunder
shall be exercisable six months after the Grant Date, and shall expire at the same time the nonqualified stock option exercised by the Participant would have expired.
(d)Stock
Appreciation Rights — The term of a Stock Appreciation Right shall be fixed by the Committee and set forth in the documents
evidencing such right, but no Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercisable more than ten years after the Grant Date. Each Stock Appreciation Right shall become exercisable at the time or times
determined by the Committee and set forth in the documents evidencing such right. Each Stock Appreciation Right granted hereunder shall have a grant price equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the
Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the Grant Date.
(e)Restricted
Stock — At the time a grant of Restricted Stock is made, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish a Restricted
Period and such additional terms and conditions as may be deemed appropriate for the incremental lapse or complete lapse of restrictions with respect to all or any portion of the shares of Common
Stock represented by the Restricted Stock. The Committee may also, in its sole discretion, shorten or terminate the Restricted Period or waive any terms or conditions for the lapse of restrictions
with respect to all or any portion of the shares of Common Stock represented by the Restricted Stock. During the Restricted Period the Participant shall generally have the rights and privileges of a
stockholder as to such Restricted Stock, including the right to vote such Restricted Stock and receive dividend payments, except that the following restrictions shall apply: (i) none of the
Restricted Stock may be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, or otherwise encumbered or disposed of during the Restricted Period and until the satisfaction of any other terms and conditions
prescribed by the Committee, if any; and (ii) all of the Restricted Stock shall be forfeited and all rights of the Participant shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the
Company unless the Participant shall have remained a regular full-time employee of the Company or an Affiliate until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period and the
satisfaction of the other terms and conditions prescribed by the Committee, if any. Any Restricted Stock granted under the Plan may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee may determine, in its
discretion, including, without limitation, book-entry registration or issuance of one or more stock certificates bearing an appropriate legend recognizing the terms, conditions and
restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock. Upon the forfeiture of any Restricted Stock, such shares of Common Stock represented by the Restricted Stock shall be transferred to the Company
without further action by the Participant. 

A-5



 
Table of Contents


(f)Restricted
Stock Units — At the time a grant of Restricted Stock Units is made, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish a
Restricted Period and such additional terms and conditions as may be deemed appropriate for the incremental lapse or complete lapse of restrictions with respect to all or any portion of such
Restricted Stock Units. The Committee may also, in its sole discretion, shorten or terminate the Restricted Period or waive any terms or conditions for the lapse of restrictions with respect to all or
any portion of the Restricted Stock Units. During the Restricted Period the Participant will not have the rights and privileges of a stockholder as to such Restricted Stock Units, including the right
to vote and receive dividend payments with respect to the shares of Common Stock corresponding to such Restricted Stock Units; provided, however, that at the sole discretion of the Committee, Dividend
Equivalents may be either currently paid in cash or shares or withheld by the Company for the Participant's account and either maintained in cash to be paid upon the expiration of the Restricted
Period or reinvested in additional Restricted Stock Units. Each grant of Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the following restrictions: (i) the Participant shall not be entitled to the
payment of cash or the delivery of the shares of Common Stock corresponding to such Restricted Stock Units until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period and the satisfaction of any
other terms and conditions prescribed by the Committee, if any; (ii) none of the Restricted Stock Units may be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, or otherwise encumbered or disposed of at
any time; and (iii) all of the Restricted Stock Units and any deferred Dividend Equivalents shall be forfeited and all rights of the Participant shall terminate without further obligation on
the part of the Company upon the termination of the Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate prior to the end of the Restricted Period for any reason other than Retirement, total
disability or death; provided, however, that if the Committee so decides and the documents evidencing an Award of Restricted Stock Units so provide, the preceding exception allowing such Restricted
Stock Units to vest following the Participant's Retirement shall not apply so that such Restricted Stock Units and any deferred Dividend Equivalents will be forfeited and all rights of the Participant
shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company upon the Retirement of such Participant prior to the end of the Restricted Period.
(g)Other
Stock Awards — The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant Stock Awards other than Restricted Stock grants or Restricted Stock
Units, and such Stock Awards may be granted singly, in combination or in tandem with, in replacement of, or as alternatives to grants or rights under this Plan or any other employee benefit or
compensation plan of the Company, including the plan of any acquired entity. If the Committee shall stipulate terms and conditions with respect to such Stock Awards, the terms and conditions will be
set forth in the documents evidencing the Award. If the terms and conditions with respect to any Stock Award shall require the surrender or forfeiture of other grants or rights under this Plan or any
other employee benefit or compensation plan of the Company, then the Participant shall not have any rights under such Stock Award until the grants or rights exchanged have been fully and effectively
surrendered or forfeited.
(h)Performance
Units and Performance Shares — At the time it approves each grant of Performance Units or Performance Shares, the Committee
shall determine the number of Performance Units or Performance Shares granted to each Participant, the proration, if any, of such Performance Units or Performance Shares if the Participant retires
prior to the completion of the relevant Performance Period, the commencement and expiration of the relevant Performance Period, and the Performance Criteria by which the payment value of the
Performance Units or Performance Shares will be determined. Payment of each Performance Unit and Performance Share shall occur no later than the March 15 of the year immediately following the
completion of the respective Performance Period, unless a Participant shall have made an effective election to defer the receipt of such payment pursuant to the terms of an applicable deferred
compensation plan and all applicable laws. The amount payable with 

A-6



 
Table of Contents


respect
to each Performance Unit and Performance Share shall be contingent upon the attainment of the Performance Criteria selected by the Committee during the respective Performance Period, and upon
the continued employment of the Participant throughout such Performance Period (or upon the Participant's Retirement prior to the end of such Performance Period). 


6.     Payment of Awards.

Payment
of Awards may be in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock or combinations thereof as the Committee shall determine, and with such other restrictions as it may impose. The Committee may
permit or require the deferral of any Award payment, subject to such terms, rules and conditions as the Committee may establish, which may include provisions for the payment or crediting of interest
or Dividend Equivalents; provided, however, that the Committee shall not have any authority to permit or require the deferral of any Award payment to the extent that the exercise of such authority
would cause any excise tax to become due under section 409A of the Code. 
No
shares of Common Stock shall be issued to any Participant upon the exercise of an Option granted under this Plan until full payment of the exercise price has been made to the Company and the
Participant has remitted to the Company the required withholding taxes, if any. Payment of the exercise price and withholding taxes, if any, may be made in whole or in part in shares of Common Stock,
pursuant to such terms and conditions as may be established from time to time by the Committee. If payment is made in shares of Common Stock, such shares shall be valued at their Fair Market Value on
the day the Participant exercises the Option or, as regards a withholding tax, on the date when the tax obligation becomes due. A Participant need not surrender shares of already owned Common Stock as
payment, and the Company may, upon the giving of satisfactory evidence of ownership of such shares by the Participant, deliver the appropriate number of additional shares of Common Stock reduced by
the number of shares required to pay the exercise
price and any required withholding taxes. Such form of evidence shall be determined by the Committee in its discretion. 
In
no event will the Company be required to deliver any fractional share of Common Stock in connection with any Award. In the event that a Participant shall be entitled to receive a fraction of a
share of Common Stock in connection with an Award granted under the Plan, the Company shall pay in cash, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional share. 

7.     Termination of Awards.

If
a Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate is terminated for any reason other than (i) a Disqualifying Termination, (ii) Retirement, (iii) a termination in
connection with which the Participant executes a written release of employment-related claims in favor of the Company that provides (with the approval of the Company) for the nonforfeiture of Options
and Stock Appreciation Rights, (iv) a physical or mental disability as recognized under a benefit plan maintained by the Participant's employer, or (v) death, and prior to the date of
termination the Participant has not fully exercised an Option or Stock Appreciation Right granted under this Plan, such Participant may exercise the Option or Stock Appreciation Right within ninety
(90) days following the date of termination (but not beyond the expiration date of such Option or Right) for the number of shares which the Participant could have purchased or received a
payment on the date of termination. At the conclusion of such ninety-day period (with respect to the Participant's Options and Stock Appreciation Rights, and at the time of termination
with respect to any other Awards), participation hereunder shall cease and all of the Participant's Awards granted under this Plan shall be automatically forfeited unless the documents evidencing such
Awards provide otherwise. 

A-7



 
Table of Contents

If
a Participant Retires, terminates employment with the Company or an Affiliate and in connection with such termination the Participant executes a written release of employment-related claims in
favor of the Company that provides (with the approval of the Company) for the nonforfeiture of Options and Stock Appreciation Rights, or changes employment status as a result of a physical or mental
disability as recognized under a benefit plan maintained by the Participant's employer, without having fully exercised an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, the Participant shall be entitled, within
the remaining term of the Option or Stock Appreciation Right (but not beyond the expiration date of such Option or Right), to exercise such Option or Stock Appreciation Right (provided, however, that
in the event of a termination in connection with which the Participant executes a written release of employment-related claims in favor of the Company that provides (with
the approval of the Company) for the nonforfeiture of Options and Stock Appreciation Rights, the additional time to exercise Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall apply only to those Options and
Stock Appreciation Rights which have vested prior to the date of termination of employment). If a Participant who has thus Retired dies, without having fully exercised an Option or Stock Appreciation
Right, the Option or Stock Appreciation Right (including any portion thereof not already exercisable at the time of the Participant's death) may be exercised within two years after the date of his or
her death (but not beyond the expiration date of such Option or Right) by the Participant's estate or by a person who acquired the right to exercise such Option or Stock Appreciation Right by bequest
or inheritance or by reason of the death of the Participant. 
If
a Participant, prior to Retirement, dies without having fully exercised an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, the Option or Stock Appreciation Right (including any portion thereof not already
exercisable at the time of the Participant's death) may be exercised within two years following his or her death (but not beyond the expiration date of such Option or Right) by the Participant's
estate or by a person who acquired the right to exercise such Option or Stock Appreciation Right by bequest or inheritance or by reason of the death of the Participant. 
Notwithstanding
the rest of this Section 7, if a Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate is terminated before he or she has fully exercised an Option or Stock Appreciation
Right under circumstances which the Committee believes to warrant special consideration and the Committee has determined that the Participant's rights should not be forfeited at the time or times
specified above, the Option or Stock Appreciation Right (including any portion thereof not already exercisable at the time of termination) may be exercised within two years following his or her
termination of employment (but not beyond the expiration date of such Option or Right). 
If
a Participant dies, either prior to or following Retirement, or becomes "disabled" within the meaning of section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Code, and has not yet received the stock certificate for
the shares of Common Stock represented by a grant of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or other Stock Award, then all restrictions imposed during the Restricted Period and any other terms and
conditions prescribed by the Committee, if any, shall automatically lapse and a stock certificate shall be delivered to the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, representative, or estate, as
the case may be upon the Participant's demonstration to the satisfaction of the Committee that such Participant is considered "disabled" for purposes of section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Code. 
If
a Participant Retires or changes employment status as a result of a physical or mental disability as recognized under a benefit plan maintained by the Participant's employer prior to the payment
date for an Award of Performance Shares or Performance Units, such Retirement or change in status shall not affect any rights of the Participant with respect to such Performance Shares or Performance
Units; provided, however, that the Committee may provide for the proration of the Performance Shares or Performance Units granted to a Participant who Retires prior to the completion of the
Performance Period for such Performance Shares or Performance Units. 

A-8



 
Table of Contents

If
a Participant dies without having received payment of any Performance Shares or Performance Units granted under this Plan, payment of such Shares or Units shall be made no later than
March 15 of the year following the year in which the Participant died to such Participant's surviving beneficiary or beneficiaries or, if there shall be no such surviving beneficiaries, to such
Participant's estate in the following manner: 


(i)If
the Participant dies after the expiration of a Performance Period for such Performance Shares or Performance Units, the payment shall be at the same rate
as that paid to other Participants who survive until the payment date; and
(ii)If
the Participant dies before the expiration of a Performance Period for such Performance Shares or Performance Units, the amount of payment shall be at
the lesser of:  


•the face or target value of each outstanding Performance Share or Performance Unit for which payment has not been made; or  
•any other amount approved, in its discretion, by the Committee. 




If
a Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate is terminated due to a Disqualifying Termination, participation hereunder shall cease and all of the Participant's Awards granted under
this Plan shall be automatically forfeited. 
Participation
hereunder shall cease and all rights under the Plan with respect to Restricted Stock or other Stock Awards granted to a Participant who has been participating in this Plan as a
nonemployee member of the 3M Board of Directors are automatically forfeited by the Participant upon the date of termination of his or her membership on the 3M Board of Directors for any reason
other than: (i) retirement, (ii) physical or mental disability as determined by the Committee, or (iii) death. 

8.     Limits on Awards.

No
Participant shall be granted Options and Stock Appreciation Rights under this Plan with respect to more than 1,000,000 shares of Common Stock in any calendar year. No Participant shall receive
cash, vested shares of Common Stock or other property as a result of Awards granted under this Plan, other than Options and Stock Appreciation Rights, having a value exceeding $30,000,000 in any
calendar year. 

9.     Plan Administration.

This
Plan will be administered by the Committee, which shall have full power and authority to select the Participants, interpret the Plan, continue, accelerate or suspend the exercisability or vesting
of an Award, and adopt such rules and procedures for operating the Plan as it may deem necessary or appropriate. Its power and authority shall include, but not be limited to, making any amendments to
or modifications of the Plan which may be required or necessary to make such Plan comply with the provisions of any laws or regulations of any country or unit thereof in which the Company or any
Affiliate operates. To do so, the Committee may establish different terms and conditions for Awards made to Participants who live in or are subject to taxation in one or more countries other than the
United States in order to accommodate the tax or other relevant laws of such countries. The Committee may adopt one or more supplements or sub-plans under the Plan to implement these
different terms and conditions. Except for adjustments made in accordance with Section 11, no Option or Stock Appreciation Right granted under this Plan may be repriced to reduce the exercise
or grant price of any outstanding Option or Stock Appreciation Right, nor may any outstanding Option or Stock Appreciation Right granted under this Plan be cancelled in exchange for cash, another
Award, or an Option or Stock Appreciation Right with an exercise or grant price that is less 

A-9



 
Table of Contents

than
the exercise or grant price of the cancelled Option or Stock Appreciation Right, without the prior approval of the Company's stockholders. 

10.  Delegation of Authority.

To
the extent permitted by Delaware law, the Committee may delegate to officers of the Company any or all of its duties, power and authority under this Plan subject to such conditions or limitations
as the Committee may establish; provided, however, that no officer shall have or obtain the authority to grant Awards to (i) himself or herself, (ii) nonemployee members of the 3M Board
of Directors, or (iii) any person subject to section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

11.  Adjustments.

In
the event of any change in the outstanding Common Stock of the Company by reason of a stock split, stock dividend, combination or reclassification of shares, recapitalization, merger or similar
event, the Committee shall adjust proportionately: (a) the number of shares of Common Stock (i) available for issuance or delivery under this Plan in accordance with Section 4,
(ii) for which Awards may be granted to a single Participant in accordance with Section 8, and (iii) subject to outstanding Awards granted under this Plan; (b) the exercise
prices of outstanding Awards; and (c) the appropriate Fair Market Value and other price determinations for such Awards. In the event of any other change affecting the Common Stock or any
distribution (other than normal cash dividends) to holders of Common Stock, such adjustments in the number or kind of shares and the exercise prices, Fair Market Value and other price determinations
of the affected Awards as the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, determine are equitable, shall be made and shall be effective and binding for all purposes of such outstanding Awards. In the
event of a corporate merger, consolidation, acquisition of assets or stock, separation, reorganization or liquidation, the Committee shall be authorized to cause the Company to assume outstanding
employee awards or issue replacement Awards to affected employees, whether or not in a transaction to which section 424(a) of the Code applies, and to make such adjustments in the terms of such
awards as it shall deem appropriate in order to maintain reasonable comparability or equitable treatment between the assumed awards and the Awards granted under this Plan as so adjusted. 

12.  Withholding.  

Prior
to the payment or settlement of any Award, the Participant must pay, or make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the payment of, any and all tax withholding that in the opinion of the
Company is required by law. The Company or any Affiliate shall have the right to deduct
applicable taxes from any Award payment, to withhold from the shares of Common Stock being issued or delivered in connection with an Award an appropriate number of shares for the payment of taxes
required by law, or to take such other action as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company or such Affiliate to satisfy all obligations for the withholding of such taxes. 

A-10




 










Table of Contents 
13.  Transferability.  

Except
as permitted in this Section 13, no Award granted under this Plan may be assigned, transferred (other than a transfer by will or the laws of descent and distribution as provided in
Section 7), pledged, or hypothecated (whether by operation of law or otherwise). Awards granted under this Plan shall not be subject to execution, attachment, or similar process. The Committee
may, in its sole discretion, permit individual Participants to transfer the ownership of all or any of their Nonqualified Options granted under this Plan to (i) the spouse, children or
grandchildren of such Participant ("Immediate Family Members"), (ii) a trust or trusts for the exclusive benefit of such Immediate Family Members, or (iii) a partnership in which such
Immediate Family Members are the only partners, provided that (x) there may be no consideration for any such transfer, and (y) subsequent transfers of transferred Nonqualified Options
shall be prohibited except those in accordance with Section 7 (by will or the laws of descent and distribution). The Committee may, in its sole discretion, create further conditions and
requirements for the transfer of Nonqualified
Options. Following transfer, any such Nonqualified Options shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer. The events causing
termination of Awards in accordance with Section 7 hereof shall continue to be applied with respect to the original Participant, following which the Nonqualified Options shall be exercisable by
the transferee only to the extent, and for the periods specified in Section 7. 

14.  Validity.  

In
the event any provision of this Plan should be determined to be illegal or invalid for any reason, it shall not affect the remaining provisions of the Plan which shall remain in effect as if the
illegal or invalid provision had never been included herein. 

15.  Governing Law.  

The
provisions of this Plan shall be governed by, and interpreted and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware. 

16.  Effective Date, Term, Amendment and Termination of the Plan.  

This
Plan will become effective on the date it is approved by the requisite vote of the stockholders of 3M Company, and shall expire (unless it is terminated before then) on the tenth anniversary of
such effective date. Such expiration shall not adversely affect Awards granted under this Plan prior to such expiration date. The Board of Directors may at any time amend or terminate this Plan,
except that no amendment or termination shall adversely affect Awards granted under this Plan prior to the effective date of such amendment or termination; provided, however, that no amendment shall
be made without the prior approval of the holders of a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock represented and entitled to vote on such amendment which would (i) increase
the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance or delivery under this Plan in accordance with Section 4 (except for adjustments made in accordance with
Section 11), (ii) permit the granting of Awards with purchase prices lower than those specified in
Section 5, or (iii) be a material amendment for which stockholder approval is required by applicable law, regulation or stock exchange rule. 

17.  Change in Control.  

For
purposes of this Section 17, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated below, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise: 


(a)"Person"
shall have the meaning associated with that term as it is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Act. 


A-11



 
Table of Contents



(b)"Affiliates
and Associates" shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Act.
(c)"Act"
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(d)"Continuing
Directors" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Article Thirteenth of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of 3M Company.
(e)"Cause"
means (i) a material violation of any policy of the Company or the Affiliate employing the Participant, including, without limitation, any of
the Company's Business Conduct Policies, or (ii) embezzlement from or theft of property belonging to the Company or the Affiliate employing the Participant.
(f)"Good
Reason" means (i) a material diminution in the Participant's position, authority, duties or responsibilities as in effect immediately prior to
the Change in Control, (ii) a material diminution in the Participant's base salary or annual planned cash compensation, or (iii) a material change in the geographic location at which the
Participant is required to perform services for the Company or the Affiliate employing such Participant. 



Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, all outstanding Options and Stock Appreciation Rights with a Grant Date prior to February 9, 2010 shall (i) become
immediately exercisable in full for the remainder of their respective terms upon the occurrence of a Change in Control of the Company, and (ii) remain exercisable in full for a minimum period
of six months following the Change in Control; provided, however, that in no event shall any Option or Stock Appreciation Right be exercisable beyond the original expiration date. Similarly, all
restrictions regarding the Restricted Period or the satisfaction of other terms and conditions prescribed by the Committee, if any, with respect to grants of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units
or other Stock Awards with a Grant Date prior to February 9, 2010, shall automatically lapse, expire, and terminate and the Participant shall be immediately entitled to receive a stock
certificate for the number of shares of Common Stock represented by the Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Stock Awards upon the occurrence of a Change in Control. 
Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, if a Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate is terminated without Cause or if the Participant resigns for a Good
Reason within eighteen months following a Change in Control of the Company, then all of such Participant's outstanding Options and Stock Appreciation Rights with a Grant Date of February 9,
2010 or later shall become immediately exercisable in full for the remainder of their respective terms and shall remain exercisable in full for a minimum of six months following the date of such
termination or resignation; provided, however, that in no event shall any Option or Stock Appreciation Right be exercisable beyond the original expiration date. Similarly, all restrictions regarding
the Restricted Period or the satisfaction of other terms and conditions prescribed by the Committee, if any, with respect to grants of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or other Stock Awards
with a Grant Date of February 9, 2010 or later, shall automatically lapse, expire and terminate and the Participant shall be immediately entitled to receive a stock certificate for the number
of shares of Common Stock represented by the Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Stock Awards upon the termination without Cause of the Participant's employment with the Company or an
Affiliate or the Participant's resignation for Good Reason within eighteen months following a Change in Control of the Company. 
Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, all outstanding Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall become immediately exercisable in full and remain exercisable in full for
a minimum period of six months following a Change in Control in which the individuals or entities acquiring control of the Company do not assume or otherwise provide for the continuation of such
Options and Rights for at least such six-month period; provided, however, that in no event shall any 

A-12



 
Table of Contents


Option
or Stock Appreciation Right be exercisable beyond the original expiration date. Similarly, all restrictions regarding the Restricted Period or the satisfaction of other terms and conditions
prescribed by the Committee, if any, with respect to grants of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or other Stock Awards shall automatically lapse, expire, and terminate and the Participant shall
be immediately entitled to receive a stock certificate for the number of shares of Common Stock represented by the Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Stock Awards upon the occurrence of a
Change in Control in which the individuals or entities acquiring control of the Company do not assume or otherwise provide for the continuation of such Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units and
other Stock Awards. 
Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control of the Company each Performance Period shall end and the Company shall immediately
distribute in cash or shares of Common Stock, as appropriate, to the respective Participants the value of all outstanding Performance Shares and Performance Units granted under this Plan with a Grant
Date prior to February 9, 2010, as determined in accordance with the following rules: 


(w)With
respect to those Performance Shares or Performance Units for which the Performance Period had not been completed prior to the Change in Control of the
Company, the value of such Shares or Units for purposes of this Section 17 shall be equal to the product of a fraction, where the numerator of such fraction is the number of full calendar
months completed during the respective Performance Period and prior to the Change in Control and the denominator of such fraction is the total number of months in such Performance Period, multiplied
by the largest of:  


•the value of such Performance Shares or Performance Units computed as if the Company's performance during the remainder of
the Performance Period following the Change in Control equaled its performance during those full calendar quarters completed during the respective Performance Period and prior to the date of the
Change in Control;   
•the value of such Performance Shares or Performance Units computed as if the Performance Period for such Shares or Units
was the three consecutive calendar year period ending immediately prior to the year in which the Change in Control occurs; or   
•any other amount approved, in its discretion, by the Committee.

(x)With
respect to those Performance Shares or Performance Units for which the Performance Period has been completed at the time of a Change in Control of the
Company, the value of such Shares or Units for purposes of this Section 17 shall be the actual value as adjusted to reflect the actual Company performance during the Performance Period. 



Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, if a Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate is terminated without Cause or if the Participant resigns for a Good
Reason within eighteen months following a Change in Control of the Company, then with respect to such Participant each Performance Period shall end and the Company shall immediately distribute in cash
or shares of Common Stock, as appropriate, to such Participant the value of all outstanding Performance Shares and Performance Units granted under this Plan with a Grant Date of February 9,
2010 or later, as determined in accordance with the following rules: 


(y)With
respect to those Performance Shares or Performance Units for which the Performance Period had not been completed prior to the Participant's termination
or resignation, the value of such Shares or Units for purposes of this Section 17 shall be equal to the product of a fraction, where the numerator of such fraction is the number of full
calendar months completed during the respective Performance Period and prior to the 


A-13



 
Table of Contents



termination
or resignation and the denominator of such fraction is the total number of months in such Performance Period, multiplied by the largest of: 

•the value of such Performance Shares or Performance Units computed as if the Company's performance during the remainder of
the Performance Period following the termination or resignation equaled its performance during those full calendar quarters completed during the respective Performance Period and prior to the date of
the termination or resignation;   
•the value of such Performance Shares or Performance Units computed as if the Performance Period for such Shares or Units
was the three consecutive calendar year period ending immediately prior to the year in which the termination or resignation occurs; or   
•any other amount approved, in its discretion, by the Committee.



(z)With
respect to those Performance Shares or Performance Units for which the Performance Period has been completed by the time of the Participant's
termination or resignation, the value of such Shares or Units for purposes of this Section 17 shall be the actual value as adjusted to reflect the actual Company performance during the
Performance Period. 



For
purposes of this Section 17, a Change in Control of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred only if a "change in the ownership" or a "change in effective control" and/or a "change in
the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of the Company has taken place (as those terms are defined in Treasury Regulations §1.409A-3(i)(5) or such other
regulation or guidance issued under section 409A of the Code. 
The
Company shall pay to each Participant the amount of all reasonable legal and accounting fees and expenses incurred by such Participant in seeking to obtain or enforce his or her rights under this
Section 17, or in connection with any income tax audit or proceeding to the extent attributable to the application of section 4999 of the Code to the payments made pursuant to this
Section 17, unless a lawsuit commenced by the Participant for such purposes is dismissed by the court as being frivolous or otherwise improper under applicable court rules. The Company shall
also pay to each Participant the amount of all reasonable tax and financial planning fees and expenses incurred by such Participant in connection with such Participant's receipt of payments pursuant
to this Section 17. Payment of these legal and accounting fees and expenses, as well as these tax and financial planning fees and expenses, shall be made as soon as administratively feasible,
but no later than two and one-half months following the end of the Participant's taxable year in which these fees and expenses have been incurred. 

18.  Miscellaneous.  


(a)Nothing
in this Plan or the fact that a person has received or become eligible to receive Awards hereunder shall be deemed to give such person any right to
be retained in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate or to interfere with the right of the Company or any Affiliate to discipline or terminate the employment of such person at any time for any
reason whatsoever. No person shall have any claim or right to receive Awards under this Plan, except as provided in accordance with the provisions of this Plan and as approved by the Committee. Unless
otherwise specifically determined by the Committee, neither the Awards themselves nor the payments received with respect to such Awards granted under this Plan will be deemed a part of any
Participant's compensation for purposes of determining such Participant's payments or benefits under any benefit plan or severance program of the Company or any Affiliate or under the severance pay
law of any country. 

A-14



 
Table of Contents


(b)This
Plan will be unfunded. The Company does not intend to create any trust or separate fund in connection with the Plan. The Company shall not have any
obligation to set aside funds or segregate assets to ensure the payment of any Award. The Plan shall not establish any fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Participant or other person.
To the extent any person holds any rights by virtue of an Award under this Plan, such right (unless otherwise determined by the Committee) shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general
creditor of the Company.
(c)Prior
to the payment or settlement of any Award, the Participant must pay or make arrangements satisfactory to the Company and its Affiliates for the
payment of any and all tax withholding that in the opinion of the Company and its Affiliates is required by law. The Company and its Affiliates shall have the right to deduct from any Award or any
payment due on account of any Award granted under this Plan the federal, state, local or foreign income or other taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to such Award or payment, to withhold
from the shares of Common Stock being issued or delivered in connection with an Award an appropriate number of shares for the payment of taxes required by law, and to take such other action as may be
necessary in the opinion of the Company and its Affiliates to satisfy all obligations for the withholding and payment of such taxes.
(d)The
provisions of this Plan and the documents evidencing Awards granted under this Plan shall be construed and interpreted according to the laws of the
State of Delaware.
(e)In
case any provision of this Plan shall be ruled or declared invalid for any reason, said illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining
provisions, and the remainder of the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal or invalid provision had never been included herein.
(f)To
the extent permitted by the Committee, each Participant shall have the right at any time to designate any person, persons or entity as the beneficiary or
beneficiaries to whom payment of the Participant's outstanding Awards shall be made in the event of the Participant's death. Any designation filed under the Plan may be revoked or changed by written
instrument so signed and filed prior to the Participant's death. If a Participant designates more than one beneficiary to receive such Participant's outstanding Awards and any beneficiary shall
predecease the Participant, the Company shall pay the deceased beneficiary's share to the surviving beneficiary or beneficiaries proportionately, as the portion designated by the Participant for each
bears to the total portion designated for all surviving beneficiaries.
(g)This
Plan is intended to comply and shall be administered in a manner that is intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code
(including the Treasury Department guidance and regulations issued thereunder), and shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with such intent. If the Committee determines that an Award, Award
document, payment, transaction or any other action or arrangement contemplated by the provisions of this Plan would, if undertaken, cause a Participant to become subject to any additional taxes or
other penalties under Section 409A of the Code, then unless the Committee specifically provides otherwise, such Award, Award document, payment, transaction or other action or arrangement shall
not be given effect to the extent it causes such result and the related provisions of the Plan and/or Award documents will be deemed modified or, if necessary, suspended in order to comply with the
requirements of Section 409A of the Code to the extent determined appropriate by the Committee, in each case without the consent of or notice to the Participant.
(h)Although
the Company and its Affiliates may endeavor to structure an Award or payment hereunder so that it (i) qualifies for favorable U.S. or
foreign tax treatment, or (ii) avoids adverse tax treatment, neither the Company nor any Affiliate makes any representation to that effect and expressly disavows any commitment or obligation to
maintain favorable or avoid unfavorable tax treatment for any Participant. 

A-15



















Table of Contents 

















         Attendance Card 
 
         Attendance Card 
 
 





 



 

 


 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders
 
Annual Meeting
of Stockholders
 

 




  
 


  
 
 


May 11, 2010
RiverCentre
175 West Kellogg Blvd.
St. Paul, Minnesota 55102
 
 May 11, 2010
RiverCentre
175 West Kellogg Blvd.
St. Paul, Minnesota 55102
 
 


 This is your ticket to the 2010 Annual Meeting. Please show it upon arrival. Annual Meeting activities begin at 9:00 a.m. with refreshments. The meeting starts at 10:00 a.m. PLEASE
NOTE THAT THE 3M STORE, LUNCH, GIFT BAGS, AND PRODUCT DISPLAYS ARE NO LONGER PART OF THE MEETING.
 
This is your ticket to the 2010 Annual Meeting. Please show it upon arrival. Annual Meeting activities begin at 9:00 a.m. with refreshments. The meeting starts at 10:00 a.m. PLEASE
NOTE THAT THE 3M STORE, LUNCH, GIFT BAGS, AND PRODUCT DISPLAYS ARE NO LONGER PART OF THE MEETING.
 

 


         The meeting will be held in the Roy Wilkins Auditorium. Hosts and hostesses will show you the way after you enter the RiverCentre.
 
         The meeting will be held in the Roy Wilkins Auditorium. Hosts and hostesses will show you the way after you enter the RiverCentre.
 

 


         Since parking space is limited, you are urged to consider carpooling or public transportation.
 
         Since parking space is limited, you are urged to consider carpooling or public transportation.
 












 





3M CENTER
BLDG. 220-9E-02
ST. PAUL, MN 55144-1000


 


VOTE BY INTERNET - www.proxyvote.com
Use the Internet to transmit your voting instructions and for
  electronic delivery of information up until 10:59 P.M. Central Daylight Time
  on May 10, 2010. Have your proxy card in hand when you access the web site
  and follow the instructions to obtain your records and to create an
  electronic voting instruction form.




 


 


 




 


 


VOTE BY PHONE - 1-800-690-6903
Use any touch-tone telephone to transmit your voting instructions up until
  10:59 P.M. Central Daylight Time on May 10, 2010. Have your proxy card in
  hand when you call and then follow the instructions.




 


 


 




 


 


VOTE BY MAIL
Mark, sign and date your proxy card and return it in the postage-paid
  envelope we have provided or return it to 3M Company, c/o Broadridge, 51
  Mercedes Way, Edgewood, NY 11717, so that it is received by May 10,
  2010.




 


 


 




 


 


ELECTRONIC DELIVERY OF FUTURE PROXY MATERIALS
If you would like to reduce the costs incurred by 3M Company in
  mailing proxy materials, you can consent to receiving all future proxy
  statements, proxy cards and annual reports electronically via e-mail or the Internet.
  To sign up for electronic delivery, please follow the instructions above to
  vote using the Internet and, when prompted, indicate that you agree to
  receive or access proxy materials electronically in future years.




 
TO
VOTE, MARK BLOCKS BELOW IN BLUE OR BLACK INK AS FOLLOWS:
 




 


 


M19548-P88856


 


KEEP THIS PORTION FOR YOUR RECORDS




 


 


 


 


DETACH AND RETURN THIS PORTION ONLY




 
THIS PROXY CARD IS VALID ONLY WHEN SIGNED AND DATED.
 




3M COMPANY


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


The
  Board of Directors recommends you vote FOR the following proposals:
  Vote on Directors


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


1.


To
  elect ten members to the Board of Directors, each for a term of one year.


 


For


 


Against


 


Abstain


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


Nominees:


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


1a.  Linda
  G. Alvarado


 


o


 


o


 


o


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


1b.  George W. Buckley


 


o


 


o


 


o


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


1c.  Vance
  D. Coffman


 


o


 


o


 


o


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


1d.  Michael
  L. Eskew


 


o


 


o


 


o


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


1e.  W.
  James Farrell


 


o


 


o


 


o


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


1f.  Herbert
  L. Henkel


 


o


 


o


 


o


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


1g.  Edward
  M. Liddy


 


o


 


o


 


o


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


1h.  Robert
  S. Morrison


 


o


 


o


 


o


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


1i.  Aulana
  L. Peters


 


o


 


o


 


o


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


1j.  Robert
  J. Ulrich


 


o


 


o


 


o


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


2.


To
  ratify the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 3M’s independent
  registered public accounting firm.


 


o


 


o


 


o


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


3.


To
  approve the amended 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan and to approve the expanded
  performance criteria available under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan.


 


o


 


o


 


o


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


The
  Board of Directors recommends you vote AGAINST the following proposal:


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


4.


Stockholder
  proposal on special meetings.


 


o


 


o


 


o


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


NOTE: Such other business
  as may properly come before the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof.


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


For
  address changes and/or comments, please check this box and write them on the back
  where indicated.


 


o


 




 
Please
sign exactly as your name(s) appear(s) hereon. When signing as attorney, executor,
administrator, or other fiduciary, please give full title as such. Joint owners
should each sign personally. All holders must sign. If a corporation or partnership,
please sign in full corporate or partnership name by authorized officer.
 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Signature
  [PLEASE SIGN WITHIN BOX]


 


Date


 


Signature
  (Joint Owners)


 


Date




 





 
 
NOTICE OF 2010 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS
 
Tuesday, May 11, 2010, 10:00 a.m. Central Daylight Time
 
 
Important Notice Regarding the Availability of Proxy Materials for the
Annual Meeting:
The Notice and Proxy Statement and Annual Report are available at
www.proxyvote.com.
 
 




M19549-P88856




 
3M COMPANY
 
The Board of Directors solicits this proxy for use at the Annual
Meeting on Tuesday, May 11, 2010.
 
The
stockholder(s) whose signature(s) appear(s) on the reverse side
of this proxy card hereby appoint(s) George W. Buckley, Patrick D.
Campbell, and Gregg M. Larson or any of them, each with full power of substitution,
as proxies, to vote all shares of common stock in 3M Company which the
stockholder(s) would be entitled to vote on all matters which may properly
come before the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and any adjournments
thereof. THE PROXIES SHALL VOTE SUBJECT TO THE DIRECTION INDICATED ON THE REVERSE
SIDE OF THIS CARD. THE PROXIES ARE AUTHORIZED TO VOTE IN THEIR DISCRETION UPON
OTHER BUSINESS AS MAY PROPERLY COME BEFORE THE MEETING AND ANY
ADJOURNMENTS OR POSTPONEMENTS THEREOF. THE PROXIES WILL VOTE AS THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS WHERE A CHOICE IS NOT SPECIFIED.
 
FOR PARTICIPANTS IN 3M’S VOLUNTARY INVESTMENT PLAN AND EMPLOYEE STOCK
OWNERSHIP PLAN (VIP), AND THE 3M SAVINGS PLAN:
 
In
accordance with the terms of the VIP and Savings Plan, shares allocated to the
respective accounts in these plans on the record date will be voted by the
trustee, State Street Bank and Trust Company, in accordance with the
instructions indicated on the reverse side of this card, and in accordance with
the judgment of the trustee upon other business as may properly come before the
meeting and any adjournments or postponements thereof. In addition,
participants in the VIP may instruct State Street (as VIP trustee) how to vote
a proportionate number of the 3M shares held by the VIP that have been
allocated to accounts of participants for which no instructions are received.
If no instructions are provided or if this card is not received on or before May 6,
2010, shares held in the respective accounts in the Savings Plan will be voted
by the trustee as directed by any one of the named proxies designated above. If
no instructions are provided or if this card is not received on or before May 6,
2010, shares held in the respective accounts in the VIP will be voted by the trustee
in the same proportion that the other participants in the VIP direct the
trustee to vote shares in the VIP accounts.
 




 


Address Changes/Comments:


 


 




 


 
 


 




 


 
 


 




 
(If you noted any Address Changes/Comments above, please mark
corresponding box on the reverse side.)
 
(Continued, and must be signed and dated on the other side)
 

 






