
DEF 14A
1
a07-6111_1def14a.htm
DEF 14A


UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
SCHEDULE 14A
Proxy Statement
Pursuant to Section 14(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Amendment No.              )



Filed by the
  Registrant  x




Filed by a Party other than the
  Registrant  o




Check the appropriate
  box:




o


Preliminary Proxy Statement




o


Confidential, for Use of the Commission Only (as
  permitted by Rule 14a-6(e)(2))




x


Definitive Proxy Statement




o


Definitive Additional Materials




o


Soliciting Material Pursuant to §240.14a-12



 



3M
  Company




(Name of
  Registrant as Specified In Its Charter)




N/A




(Name of
  Person(s) Filing Proxy Statement, if other than the Registrant)




 




Payment of Filing Fee (Check the appropriate box):




x


No fee required.




o


Fee computed on table below per Exchange Act
  Rules 14a-6(i)(1) and 0-11.




 


(1)


Title of each class of securities to which
  transaction applies:




 


 


 




 


(2)


Aggregate number of securities to which transaction
  applies:




 


 


 




 


(3)


Per unit price or other underlying value of
  transaction computed pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0-11 (set forth the
  amount on which the filing fee is calculated and state how it was
  determined):




 


 


 




 


(4)


Proposed maximum aggregate value of transaction:




 


 


 




 


(5)


Total fee paid:




 


 


 




o


Fee paid previously with preliminary materials.




o


Check box if any part of the fee is offset as
  provided by Exchange Act Rule 0-11(a)(2) and identify the filing
  for which the offsetting fee was paid previously. Identify the previous
  filing by registration statement number, or the Form or Schedule and the
  date of its filing.




 


(1)


Amount Previously Paid:




 


 


 




 


(2)


Form, Schedule or Registration Statement No.:




 


 


 




 


(3)


Filing Party:




 


 


 




 


(4)


Date Filed:




 


 


 




 


 


 




 


 


Persons
  who are to respond to the collection of information contained in this form
  are not required to respond unless the form displays a currently valid OMB
  control number.









 








 


 


George W. Buckley
Chairman
  of the Board, President and
  Chief Executive Officer







 


March 26, 2007




 


 


Dear Stockholder:
I am pleased to invite you to attend 3M’s Annual
  Meeting of Stockholders, which will be held on Tuesday, May 8, 2007, at
  10 a.m., at the RiverCentre, 175 West Kellogg Boulevard, St. Paul,
  Minnesota.
Details regarding admission to the meeting and the
  business to be conducted are more fully described in the accompanying Notice
  of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement. I will report on Company operations
  and discuss our plans for growth. There will also be time for your questions
  and comments.
The fine attendance of our stockholders at Annual
  Meetings over the years has been very helpful in maintaining good
  communication. I sincerely hope you will be able to join us. Your attendance cards to the Annual Meeting are located on the back
  cover of this proxy statement.
Your vote is important. Whether or not you plan to
  attend the Annual Meeting, please vote as soon as possible. You may vote on
  the Internet, by telephone, or by completing and mailing a traditional proxy
  card. Please review the instructions on the proxy card regarding each of
  these voting options.
Thank you for your
  ongoing support of 3M.
Sincerely,

 




 




2007
ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL MEETING AND PROXY STATEMENT
TABLE OF
CONTENTS




Notice of Annual Meeting of
  Stockholders


 


iii


 




Proxy
  Statement


 


1


 




Purpose
  of the Annual Meeting


 


1


 




Annual
  Meeting Admission


 


1


 




Stockholders
  Entitled to Vote


 


1


 




Proposals You Are Asked to Vote On and the Board’s
  Voting Recommendations


 


2


 




Voting Requirements to Elect Directors and Approve
  Each of the Proposals Described in this Proxy Statement


 


3


 




Voting
  Methods


 


3


 




Changing
  Your Vote


 


4


 




Counting
  the Vote


 


4


 




Confidentiality


 


5


 




Results
  of the Vote


 


5


 




Delivery
  of Proxy Materials


 


5


 




List of
  Stockholders


 


5


 




Electronic Delivery of Proxy Materials and Annual
  Report


 


5


 




Cost
  of Proxy Solicitation


 


6


 




Transfer
  Agent


 


6


 




Governance
  of the Company


 


7


 




Corporate Governance Guidelines


 


7


 




Executive
  Sessions


 


7


 




Lead
  Independent Director


 


7


 




Communication
  with Directors


 


7


 




Director
  Independence


 


7


 




Director
  Nomination Process


 


8


 




3M
  Business Conduct Policies


 


10


 




Related Person Transaction Policy and Procedures


 


11


 




Board
  and Committee Membership


 


12


 




Audit
  Committee


 


13


 




Compensation
  Committee


 


13


 




Finance
  Committee


 


14


 




Nominating and Governance Committee


 


15


 




Director Compensation and Stock Ownership Guidelines


 


16


 




Proposals
  To Be Voted On


 


18


 




Proposal
  No. 1 — Election of Directors


 


18


 




Proposal
  No. 2 — Ratification of the Appointment of Independent Registered
  Public Accounting Firm


 


21


 




i 


 




Proposal No. 3 — Proposal to Amend the
  Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation to Eliminate the
  Supermajority Vote Requirements


 


21


 




Proposal
  No. 4 — Proposal to Amend the Company’s Restated Certificate of
  Incorporation to Eliminate the Fair Price Provision


 


22


 




Proposal
  No. 5 — Approve the Executive Annual Incentive Plan


 


25


 




Proposal
  No. 6 — Approve the Material Terms of the Performance Criteria
  Under the Performance Unit Plan


 


27


 




Proposal
  No. 7 — Stockholder Proposal on Executive Compensation Based on the
  Performance of Peer Companies


 


28


 




Common Stock Ownership of Directors and Executive
  Officers


 


30


 




Beneficial
  Ownership Table


 


31


 




Security Ownership of More Than 5 Percent Stockholders


 


32


 




Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
  Compliance


 


32


 




Executive
  Compensation


 


32


 




Compensation Discussion and Analysis


 


32


 




Compensation
  Committee Report


 


39


 




Summary
  Compensation Table


 


40


 




Grants
  of Plan-Based Awards


 


42


 




Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End


 


47


 




Option Exercises and Stock Vested


 


48


 




Pension
  Benefits


 


48


 




Nonqualified Deferred Compensation


 


51


 




Potential Payments Upon Termination or
  Change-in-Control.


 


52


 




Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
  Participation


 


58


 




Audit
  Committee Report


 


59


 




Audit Committee Policy on Pre-Approval of Audit and
  Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Registered Public
  Accounting Firm


 


59


 




Fees of the Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm


 


60


 




Requirements for Submission of Stockholder Proposals
  for Next Year’s Annual Meeting 


 


61


 




Appendix
  A — Director Independence Guidelines


 


A-1


 




Appendix
  B — 3M Corporate Governance Guidelines


 


B-1


 




Appendix
  C — Audit Committee Charter


 


C-1


 




Appendix
  D — Compensation Committee Charter


 


D-1


 




Appendix
  E — Finance Committee Charter


 


E-1


 




Appendix
  F — Nominating and Governance Committee Charter


 


F-1


 




Appendix
  G — Proposed Amendments to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation and
  the Proposed Certificate of Amendment


 


G-1


 




Appendix H — Executive Annual Incentive Plan


 


H-1


 




 
ii




3M COMPANY
3M Center, St. Paul, Minnesota 55144
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS



TIME AND DATE


10:00 a.m. on
  Tuesday, May 8, 2007




PLACE


RiverCentre
  175 West Kellogg Boulevard
  St. Paul, Minnesota




ITEMS OF BUSINESS


(1)    To elect ten
  members to the Board of Directors, each for a term of one year.
(2)    To ratify the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 3M’s
  independent registered public accounting firm.
(3)    To approve an amendment to the Company’s Certificate of
  Incorporation to eliminate the supermajority vote requirements.
(4)    To approve an amendment to the Company’s Certificate of
  Incorporation to eliminate the fair price provision.
(5)    To approve the Executive Annual Incentive Plan.
(6)    To approve the material terms of the performance criteria under
  the Performance Unit Plan.
(7)    To consider one stockholder proposal if properly presented at
  the meeting. See the Table of Contents for a description of the stockholder
  proposal.
(8)    To transact such other business as may properly come before the
  Annual Meeting and any adjournment or postponement.




ADJOURNMENTS AND POSTPONEMENTS


Any action on the items of business described above
  may be considered at the Annual Meeting at the time and on the date specified
  above or at any time and date to which the Annual Meeting may be properly
  adjourned or postponed.




RECORD DATE


You are entitled to vote if you were a stockholder of
  record at the close of business on Friday, March 9, 2007.




ANNUAL REPORT


Our 2006 Annual Report, which is not part of the
  proxy soliciting materials, is enclosed.




MEETING ADMISSION


Either an admission ticket or
  proof of ownership of 3M stock, as well as a form of personal identification,
  must be presented in order to be admitted to the Annual Meeting. If you are a
  stockholder of record, your admission ticket is included on the back cover of
  this proxy statement. If your shares are held in the name of a bank, broker
  or other holder of record, you must bring a brokerage statement or other
  proof of ownership with you to the Meeting, or you may request an admission
  ticket in advance. Please refer to the section entitled “Annual Meeting
  Admission” on page 1 for further details.




PROXY VOTING


Your vote is very important. Whether or not you plan
  to attend the Annual Meeting, we encourage you to read this proxy statement
  and submit your proxy card as soon as possible. You may submit your proxy
  card for the Annual Meeting by completing, signing, dating and returning your
  proxy card in the pre-addressed envelope provided, or, in most cases, by
  using the telephone or the Internet. For specific instructions on how to vote
  your shares, please refer to the section entitled “Voting Methods” on
  page 3 of this proxy statement and the voting instructions on the proxy
  card.



 







By Order of the Board of Directors,




 







 


GREGG M. LARSON




 


Associate General Counsel and Secretary




 
THIS PROXY STATEMENT AND PROXY CARD ARE BEING
DISTRIBUTED ON OR ABOUT MARCH 26, 2007.
iii




PROXY STATEMENT
The Board of Directors (the “Board”) of 3M Company, a
Delaware corporation (“3M” or the “Company”) is soliciting proxies for the
Annual Meeting of Stockholders. You are receiving a proxy statement because you
own shares of 3M common stock that entitle you to vote at the meeting. By use
of a proxy, you can vote whether or not you attend the meeting. The proxy
statement describes the matters we would like you to vote on and provides
information on those matters so you can make an informed decision.
The information included in
this proxy statement relates to proposals to be voted on at the meeting (if
properly presented), the voting process, 3M’s Board and Board committees, the
compensation of directors and certain executive officers, and other required
information.
Purpose of the Annual
Meeting
The purpose of the Annual
Meeting is to elect directors and to conduct the business described in the
Notice of Annual Meeting.
Annual Meeting
Admission
Only stockholders are invited to attend the meeting.
An admission ticket or proof of ownership of 3M stock, along with personal
identification, must be presented in order to be admitted to the Annual
Meeting. If you are a stockholder of record, your admission ticket is on the
back of this proxy statement. If your shares are held in the name of a bank,
broker or other holder of record, you must bring a brokerage statement or other
proof of ownership with you to the Annual Meeting, or obtain an admission
ticket in advance. Tickets are also available on the Internet voting site —
www.eproxy.com/mmm. If you do not provide
photo identification or comply with the other procedures outlined above, you
will not be admitted to the Annual Meeting.
No cameras (including cell phone cameras), recording equipment,
electronic devices, large bags, briefcases, or packages will be permitted in
the Annual Meeting.
Stockholders Entitled
to Vote
Each share of our
common stock outstanding as of the close of business on March 9, 2007, the
record date, is entitled to one vote at the Annual Meeting on each matter
properly brought before the meeting. As of that date, there were 727,566,923
shares of common stock issued and outstanding.
Most 3M stockholders
hold their shares through a stockbroker, bank, trustee, or other nominee rather
than directly in their own name. As summarized below, there are some
distinctions between shares held of record and those owned beneficially:
·       STOCKHOLDER
OF RECORD — If your shares are registered directly in your name with 3M’s
Transfer Agent, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., you are considered the stockholder of
record of those shares and these proxy materials are being sent directly to you
by 3M. As the stockholder of record, you have the right to grant your voting
proxy directly to 3M or to vote in person at the meeting.
·       BENEFICIAL OWNER — If
your shares are held in a stock brokerage account, by a bank, trustee, or other
nominee, you are considered the beneficial owner of shares held in street name
and these proxy materials are being forwarded to you by your broker, trustee,
or nominee who is considered the stockholder of record of those shares. As the
beneficial owner, you have the right to direct your broker, trustee, or nominee
on how to vote and are also invited to attend the meeting. However, since you
are not the stockholder of record, you may not vote 
1 


these shares in person at the meeting. Your broker,
trustee, or nominee is obligated to provide you with a voting instruction card
for you to use.
·       If your shares are held in
your account in the 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership
Plan or the 3M Savings Plan, you are considered the beneficial owner of these
shares and the trustee of the plans is the stockholder of record. Participants
in 3M’s Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M
Savings Plan may direct the trustee how to vote the shares allocated to their
account by following the voting instructions contained on the proxy card.
Participants in 3M’s Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership
Plan may also direct the trustee how to vote a proportionate number of
allocated shares of common stock for which it has not received direction, and
shares not allocated to individual participant accounts by following the same voting
instructions. If you fail to direct the trustee how to vote your shares by
following these voting instructions, the trustee will vote your shares as
described in the voting instructions.
Proposals You Are Asked
to Vote On and the Board’s Voting Recommendations
The
following proposals are scheduled to be voted on at the meeting. 3M’s Board
recommends that you vote your shares as indicated below.



Proposals:


 


 


The Board’s
  Voting Recommendations:




1.  The election of directors.


 


 


“FOR”
  each nominee
  to the Board




2.  The ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
  as 3M’s independent registered public accounting firm.


 


 


“FOR”




3.  Proposal to amend the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation to
  eliminate the supermajority vote requirements.


 


 


“FOR”




4.  Proposal to amend the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation to
  eliminate the fair price provision.


 


 


“FOR”




5.  Proposal to approve the Executive Annual Incentive Plan.


 


 


“FOR”




6.  Proposal to approve the material terms of the performance
  criteria under the Performance Unit Plan.


 


 


“FOR”




7.  Stockholder proposal on executive compensation based on the performance
  of peer companies.


 


 


“AGAINST”



 
Other than the proposals
described in this proxy statement, the Board is not aware of any other matters
to be presented for a vote at the Annual Meeting. If you grant a proxy by
telephone, Internet, or by signing and returning your proxy card, any of the
persons named as proxy holders — George W. Buckley, 3M’s Chairman,
President and CEO, Vance D. Coffman, and Rozanne L. Ridgway — will have
the discretion to vote your shares on any additional matters properly presented
for a vote at the meeting. If any of our nominees is unavailable as a candidate
for director, the above-named proxy holders will vote your proxy for another
candidate or candidates as may be nominated by the Board of Directors.
2 


Voting Requirements to Elect Directors and Approve
Each of the Proposals Described in this Proxy Statement
Quorum —
The presence of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of common
stock entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting, present in person or represented
by proxy, is necessary to constitute a quorum. Abstentions and “broker
non-votes” are counted as present and entitled to vote for purposes of
determining a quorum. A “broker non-vote” occurs when a bank, broker, or other
holder of record holding shares for a beneficial owner does not vote on a
particular proposal because that holder does not have discretionary voting
power for that particular item and has not received instructions from the
beneficial owner.
If you are a beneficial
owner (other than as a participant in the 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and
Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M Savings Plan), your bank, broker, or
other holder of record is permitted to vote your shares on the election of directors,
the ratification of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as our independent registered
public accounting firm, and the Proposals to amend the Company’s Restated
Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate the supermajority and fair price
provisions, even if the record holder does not receive voting instructions from
you. The record holder may not vote on the stockholder proposal absent
instructions from you. Without your voting instructions, a broker non-vote will
occur.
Election
of Directors — The nominees for election as
directors at the Annual Meeting will be elected by a plurality of the votes
cast at the meeting. This means that the director nominee with the most votes
for a particular slot is elected for that slot. Votes withheld from one or more
director nominees will have no effect on the election of any director from whom
votes are withheld.
Majority
Vote Policy — Our Corporate Governance
Guidelines, which appear in Appendix B in this proxy statement, set forth our
procedures if a director-nominee is elected, but receives a majority of “withheld”
votes. In an uncontested election (i.e., an election where the only nominees
are those recommended by the Board), any nominee for director who receives a
greater number of votes “withheld” from his or her election than votes “for”
such election is required to tender his or her resignation. The Nominating and
Governance Committee is required to make recommendations to the Board with
respect to any such letter of resignation. The Board is required to take action
with respect to this recommendation and to disclose their decision-making
process. Full details of this Policy are set out under “Proposal No. 1 —
Election of Directors” and in paragraph B6 of the Corporate Governance
Guidelines in Appendix B.
The
Proposals to Amend the Restated Certificate of Incorporation —
The affirmative “FOR” vote by the holders of at least eighty percent (80%) of
the outstanding common stock entitled to vote is required to approve the
amendments to the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation. An
abstention on this proposal is not an affirmative vote and will have the same
effect as a vote against this proposal.
All Other Proposals — The
affirmative “FOR” vote of a majority of those shares present in person or
represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the matter is
required to approve all other proposals. In tabulating the voting result for
any particular proposal, shares that constitute broker non-votes are not
considered entitled to vote on that proposal. The stockholder proposal is
presented as a request to the Board to take action. Affirmative votes for this
proposal will inform the Board about the level of support for this proposal.
Voting Methods
If you hold shares directly as the stockholder of
record, you may vote by granting a proxy or, if you hold shares beneficially in
street name, by submitting voting instructions to your broker or nominee. If
you own shares beneficially as a participant in the 3M Voluntary Investment
Plan and 
3 


Employee Stock Ownership Plan
or the 3M Savings Plan, you may vote by submitting voting instructions to the
trustee. In most instances, you will be able to do this over the Internet, by
telephone, or by mail. Please refer to the summary instructions below and those
included on your proxy card or, for shares held in street name, the voting
instruction card included by your broker or nominee.
The Internet and
telephone voting procedures are designed to authenticate stockholders by use of
a control number and to allow you to confirm that your instructions have been
properly recorded. If you vote by telephone or on the Internet, you do not need
to return your proxy card. Telephone and Internet voting for stockholders of
record will be available 24 hours a day, and will close at 12:00 p.m.
(Central Time) on the day before the Annual Meeting. Participants in 3M’s
Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan and the 3M Savings
Plan may instruct the trustee how to vote their shares via the Internet, by
telephone, or by signing and returning the proxy card by 5:00 p.m. (Central
Time) on May 4, 2007.
·       VOTE BY INTERNET — www.eproxy.com/mmm —
If you have Internet access, you may submit your proxy from any location in the
world 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Have your proxy card and the last four
digits of your Social Security Number in hand when you access the Web site.
When prompted, enter the last four digits of your Social Security Number, your
3-digit company number, and the 7-digit number from the upper right
corner of the proxy card to create an electronic ballot.
·       VOTE
BY TELEPHONE — 1-800-560-1965 — If you live in the
United States, you may use any touch-tone telephone to vote your proxy
toll-free 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Have your proxy card in hand when you
call. When prompted, enter the 3-digit company number and the 7-digit
number from the upper right corner of the proxy card. Follow the recorded
instructions.
·       VOTE
BY MAIL — You may do this by signing your proxy card or, for shares held
in street name, the voting instruction card included by your broker or nominee
and mailing it. If you provide specific voting instructions, your shares will
be voted as you instruct. If you sign, but do not provide instructions, your
shares will be voted as the Board recommends. Mark, sign, and date your proxy
card and return it in the postage-paid envelope provided so that it is received
by May 7, 2007.
All shares that have been
properly voted and not revoked will be voted at the Annual Meeting.
Changing Your Vote
You may change your proxy
instructions at any time prior to the vote at the Annual Meeting. For shares
held directly in your name, you may accomplish this by granting a new proxy or
by voting in person at the Annual Meeting. For shares held beneficially by you,
you may change your vote by submitting new voting instructions to your broker
or nominee.
Counting the Vote
In the election of directors, you may vote “FOR” all
of the nominees or your vote may be “WITHHELD” from one or more of the
nominees. For the other proposals, you may vote “FOR,” “AGAINST,” or “ABSTAIN.”
If you “ABSTAIN,” it has the same effect as a vote “AGAINST.”  If you sign your proxy card or broker voting
instruction card with no further instructions, your shares will be voted in
accordance with the recommendations of the Board. Shares held in your account
in the 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M
Savings Plan will be voted by the trustee as described in “Stockholders
Entitled to Vote” on page 1.
4 


Representatives of Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A., 3M’s transfer agent, will tabulate the votes and act as the
inspectors of election.
Confidentiality
The Company’s Board of
Directors has a policy that all stockholder proxies, ballots, and tabulations
that identify stockholders are to be maintained in confidence. No such document
will be available for examination, and the identity and vote of any stockholder
will not be disclosed, except as necessary to meet legal requirements and allow
the inspectors of election to certify the results of the stockholder vote. The
policy also provides that inspectors of election for stockholder votes must be
independent and cannot be employees of the Company. Occasionally, stockholders
provide written comments on their proxy card that may be forwarded to 3M
management.
Results of the Vote
We will announce preliminary
voting results at the meeting and publish final results in our Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending June 30, 2007. A news
release with voting results will be available on our Web site www.3M.com/profile/pressbox/index.jhtml.
Delivery of Proxy
Materials
Securities and Exchange Commission rules now
allow us to deliver a single copy of an annual report and proxy statement to
any household at which two or more stockholders reside, if we believe the
stockholders are members of the same family. This rule benefits both you
and the Company. We believe it eliminates irritating duplicate mailings that
stockholders living at the same address receive and it reduces our printing and
mailing costs. This rule applies to any annual reports, proxy statements,
proxy statements combined with a prospectus, or information statements. Each
stockholder will continue to receive a separate proxy card or voting
instruction card.
Your household may have received a single set of proxy
materials this year. If you prefer to receive your own copy now or in future
years, please request a duplicate set by contacting our transfer agent, Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. at 1-800-401-1952 (U.S.), 651-450-4064
(outside the U.S.), www.wellsfargo.com/shareownerservices, or in writing
to 161 North Concord Exchange, South St. Paul, MN 55075.
If a broker or other nominee
holds your shares, you may continue to receive some duplicate mailings. Certain
brokers will eliminate duplicate account mailings by allowing stockholders to
consent to such elimination, or through implied consent if a stockholder does
not request continuation of duplicate mailings. Since not all brokers and
nominees may offer stockholders the opportunity this year to eliminate
duplicate mailings, you may need to contact your broker or nominee directly to
discontinue duplicate mailings to your household.
List of Stockholders
The names of stockholders of
record entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting will be available at the Annual
Meeting and for ten days prior to the meeting for any purpose germane to the
meeting, between the hours of 7:45 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. (Central Time),
at our principal executive offices at 3M Center, St. Paul, Minnesota, by
contacting the Secretary of the Company.
Electronic Delivery of
Proxy Materials and Annual Report
We are able to distribute the
annual report and proxy statement to 3M stockholders in a fast and efficient
manner via the Internet. This reduces the amount of paper delivered to a
stockholder’s address and eliminates the cost of sending these documents by
mail. Stockholders may elect to view 
5 


all future
annual reports and proxy statements on the Internet instead of receiving them
by mail. If you choose to view these materials online, you will continue to
receive a proxy card in the mail. You may make this election when voting your
proxy this year: simply follow the instructions to vote via the Internet or go
directly to www.econsent.com/mmm to register your consent. Have your
account number (found above your name and address on your dividend check stub)
and your Social Security Number (if you have one) available. Your election to
view proxy materials online continues until you revoke it. Future proxy cards
will contain the Internet Web site address and instructions to view the materials.
You will continue to have the option to vote your shares by telephone, mail, or
via the Internet.
Cost of Proxy
Solicitation
3M  will pay for the cost of preparing, assembling, printing, mailing,
and distributing these proxy materials. You will need to obtain your own
Internet access if you choose to access the proxy materials and/or vote over
the Internet. In addition to mailing these proxy materials, the solicitation of
proxies or votes may be made in person, by telephone, or electronic
communication by our directors, officers, and employees, who do not receive any
additional compensation for these solicitation activities. We have hired
Georgeson Shareholder Communications, Inc. to assist us in the
distribution of proxy materials and the solicitation of votes. We will pay
Georgeson Shareholder Communications, Inc. a fee of $20,000 plus expenses
for these services. We will also reimburse brokerage houses and other
custodians, nominees, and fiduciaries for their reasonable out-of-pocket
expenses for forwarding proxy and solicitation materials to beneficial owners
of stock.
Transfer Agent
Our Transfer Agent is Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. All
communications concerning stockholders of record accounts, including address
changes, name changes, common stock transfer requirements, and similar issues
can be handled by contacting Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. at 1-800-401-1952
(U.S.), 651-450-4064 (outside the U.S.), www.wellsfargo.com/shareownerservices,
or in writing, 161 North Concord Exchange, South St. Paul, MN 55075.
6




GOVERNANCE
OF THE COMPANY
Corporate Governance
Guidelines
The Board has adopted
Corporate Governance Guidelines that, along with the charters of the Board
committees, provide the framework for the governance of the Company. The Board’s
Nominating and Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing and reviewing
the Guidelines at least annually, and recommending any proposed changes to the
Board for approval. The Corporate Governance Guidelines are available on our
Web site at www.3M.com, under Investor Relations — Corporate
Governance. The Guidelines and charters of the Board committees are also
attached to this proxy statement as Appendices B-F.
Executive Sessions
Independent directors regularly meet in executive
sessions without the Chairman and CEO or other members of management present to
review the criteria upon which the performance of the Chairman and CEO is
based, the performance of the Chairman and CEO against that criteria, to ratify
the compensation of the Chairman and CEO as approved by the Compensation
Committee, and to discuss any other relevant matters.
Lead Independent
Director
The 3M Board of
Directors has appointed an independent director to serve in a lead capacity (“Lead
Director”) to coordinate the activities of the other non-management directors,
and to perform such other duties and responsibilities as the Board of Directors
may determine. Currently the Lead Director is Vance D. Coffman. The Lead
Director:
·       presides at all meetings of
the Board at which the Chairman is not present, including executive sessions of
the independent directors;
·       acts as a key liaison
between the Chairman/CEO and the independent directors;
·       assists the Chairman/CEO in
setting the Board agenda and frequency of meetings;
·       has
the authority to call meetings of the independent directors; and
·       communicates Board member
feedback to the Chairman/CEO (except that the chair of the Compensation
Committee leads the discussion of the Chairman/CEO’s performance and
communicates the Board’s evaluation of that performance to the Chairman/CEO).
Communication with
Directors
The Board of Directors has
adopted the following process for stockholders and other interested parties to
send communications to members of the Board. Stockholders and other interested
parties may communicate with the Lead Director, the chairs of the Audit,
Compensation, Finance, and Nominating and Governance Committees of the Board,
or with any of our other independent directors, by sending a letter to the
following address: 3M Company, c/o Corporate Secretary, 3M Center, Building 220-13-W-39,
St. Paul, MN 55144-1000.
Director Independence
Pursuant to New York
Stock Exchange listing standards, the Board of Directors has adopted a formal
set of categorical Director Independence Guidelines with respect to the
determination of director independence, the full text of which is attached as
Appendix A to this proxy statement. In accordance with these Guidelines, a
director or nominee for director must be determined to have no material
relationship with the Company other than as a director. The Guidelines specify
the criteria by 
7 


which the independence of our
directors will be determined, including strict guidelines for directors and
their immediate families with respect to past employment or affiliation with
the Company or its independent registered public accounting firm. The
Guidelines also prohibit Audit Committee members from having any direct or
indirect financial relationship with the Company, and restrict both commercial
and not-for-profit relationships of all directors with the Company. Directors
may not be given personal loans or extensions of credit by the Company, and all
directors are required to deal at arm’s length with the Company and its
subsidiaries, and to disclose any circumstance that might be perceived as a
conflict of interest.
In accordance with these Guidelines, the Board
undertook its annual review of director independence. During this review, the
Board considered transactions and relationships between each director
(including nominees for director), or any member of his or her immediate family
and the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates in each of the most recent
three completed fiscal years. The Board also considered whether there were any
transactions or relationships between directors or any member of their
immediate family (or any entity of which a director or an immediate family
member is an executive officer, general partner, or significant equity holder).
The Board considered that in the ordinary course of business, transactions may
occur between the Company and its subsidiaries and companies at which some of
our directors are or have been officers. In particular, with respect to each of
the most recent three completed fiscal years, the Board evaluated for each of
the directors (and the nominee for director), Coffman, Eskew, Farrell, Henkel
(nominee for director), Liddy, and Sharer, the annual amount of sales to 3M by
the company where he serves (or served) as an executive officer, and purchases
by that company from 3M, and determined that the amount of sales and purchases
in each fiscal year was below one percent of the annual revenues of each of
those companies, the threshold set forth in the Director Independence
Guidelines. The Board also considered charitable contributions to not-for-profit
organizations of which our directors or immediate family members are affiliated,
none of which approached the levels set forth in our Director Independence
Guidelines.
As a result of this review,
the Board affirmatively determined that the following directors (and the
nominee for director), are independent under these Guidelines:  Linda G. Alvarado, Vance D. Coffman, Michael
L. Eskew, W. James Farrell, Herbert L. Henkel (nominee for director), Edward
M. Liddy, Robert S. Morrison, Aulana L. Peters, Rozanne L. Ridgway, and
Kevin W. Sharer. The Board has also determined that no members of the
Audit Committee received any compensation from the Company other than directors’
fees. George W. Buckley is considered an inside director because of his
employment as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of
the Company.
Director Nomination
Process
Role of the Nominating
and Governance Committee
The Nominating and Governance
Committee (“Committee”) identifies individuals that the Committee believes are
qualified to become Board members in accordance with the Board Membership
Criteria set forth below, and recommends selected individuals to the Board for
nomination to stand for election at the next meeting of stockholders of the
Company in which directors will be elected. In the event there is a vacancy on
the Board between meetings of stockholders, the Committee identifies
individuals that the Committee believes are qualified to become Board members
in accordance with the Board Membership Criteria set forth below, and
recommends one or more of such individuals for appointment to the Board.
Nominees Proposed by
Stockholders for Consideration by the Committee
The Committee has a
policy to consider properly submitted stockholder nominees for candidates for
membership on the Board of Directors. Stockholders proposing individuals for
consideration by 
8 


the
Committee must include at least the following information about the proposed
nominee:  the proposed nominee’s name,
age, business or residence address, principal occupation or employment, and
whether such person has given written consent to being named in the proxy
statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected. Stockholders
should send the required information about the nominee to:
Corporate Secretary
3M Company
3M Center
Building 220-13-W-39
St. Paul, MN 55144-1000.
In order for an individual
proposed by a stockholder to be considered by the Committee for recommendation
as a Board nominee, the Corporate Secretary must receive the proposal no later
than 5 p.m. Central Time on November 27, 2007. Such proposals must be
sent via registered, certified, or express mail (or other means that allows the
stockholder to determine when the proposal was received by the Company). The
Corporate Secretary will send properly submitted stockholder proposed
nominations to the Committee Chair for consideration at a future Committee
meeting. Individuals proposed by stockholders in accordance with these
procedures will receive the same consideration that individuals identified to
the Committee through other means receive.
Stockholder Nominations
In addition, 3M’s Bylaws
permit stockholders to nominate directors at an annual meeting of stockholders
or at a special meeting at which directors are to be elected in accordance with
the notice of meeting. Stockholders intending to nominate a person for election
as a director must comply with the requirements set forth in the Company’s
Bylaws. Our Bylaws require, among other things, that the Corporate Secretary
receive written notice from the record stockholder no earlier than January 9,
2008, and no later than February 8, 2008. The notice must contain the
information required by the Bylaws, a copy of which is available upon request
to the Corporate Secretary. Nominations received after February 8, 2008,
will not be acted upon at the Annual Meeting.
Director Qualifications
The
Committee periodically reviews with the Board the requisite skills and
characteristics of its members. 3M’s Corporate Governance Guidelines contain
Board Membership Criteria that apply to nominees for a position on 3M’s Board.
The Committee periodically reviews with the Board the appropriate skills and
characteristics required of Board members given the current Board composition.
It is the intent of the Board that the Board, itself, will be a high
performance organization creating competitive advantage for the Company. To
perform as such, the Board will be comprised of individuals who have
distinguished records of leadership and success in their arena of activity and
who will make substantial contributions to Board operations and effectively
represent the interests of all stockholders. The Committee’s and the Board’s
assessment of Board candidates includes, but is not limited to, consideration
of:
(i)               Roles
and contributions valuable to the business community;
(ii)            Personal
qualities of leadership, character, judgment, and whether the candidate
possesses and maintains throughout service on the Board a reputation in the
community at large of integrity, trust, respect, competence, and adherence to
the highest ethical standards;
(iii)         Relevant
knowledge and diversity of background and experience in such things as
business, manufacturing, technology, finance and accounting, marketing,
international business, government, and the like; or
9 


(iv)         Whether
the candidate is free of conflicts and has the time required for preparation,
participation, and attendance at all meetings.
In addition to these minimum
requirements, the Committee will also evaluate whether the nominee’s skills are
complementary to the existing Board members’ skills, the Board’s needs for
particular expertise in fields such as business, manufacturing, technology,
financial, marketing, international, governmental, or other areas of expertise,
and assess the nominees’ impact on Board dynamics and effectiveness.
Identification, Evaluation, and Selection of Nominees
The Committee periodically
reviews the appropriate size and composition of the Board and anticipates
future vacancies and needs of the Board. In the event the Committee recommends
an increase in the size of the Board or a vacancy occurs, the Committee
considers qualified nominees from several sources, including current Board
members and nominees recommended by stockholders and other persons.
The Committee may from time to
time retain a director search firm to help the Committee identify qualified
director nominees for consideration by the Committee.
The Committee evaluates qualified director nominees at
regular or special Committee meetings against the current Board Membership
Criteria described above and reviews qualified director nominees with the
Board. The Committee and the Chairman of the Board interview candidates that
meet the Board Membership Criteria and the Committee selects nominees that best
suit the Board’s current needs and recommends one or more of such individuals
for election to the Board. Of the ten nominees for election as directors at the
2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, nine are current directors and one is a
new nominee who was identified by the Chief Executive Officer and recommended
to the Board by the Nominating and Governance Committee.
3M Business Conduct Policies
More than a century of
operating with honesty and integrity has earned 3M trust from our customers,
credibility with our communities, and dedication from our employees. All of our
employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and
Principal Accounting Officer, are required to abide by 3M’s business conduct
policies to ensure that our business is conducted in a consistently legal and
ethical manner. These policies form the foundation of a comprehensive process
that includes compliance with corporate policies and procedures and a
companywide focus on uncompromising honesty and integrity in every aspect of
our operations. Our business conduct policies cover many topics, including
antitrust and competition law, conflicts of interest, financial reporting,
protection of confidential information, and compliance with all laws and
regulations applicable to the conduct of our business.
Employees are required to
report any conduct that they believe in good faith to be an actual or apparent
violation of the business conduct policies. The Audit Committee has adopted procedures
to receive, retain, and treat complaints received regarding accounting,
internal accounting controls, or auditing matters, and to allow for the
confidential and anonymous submission by employees of concerns regarding
questionable accounting or auditing matters.
The Board of Directors adopted
a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for directors of the Company. This Code
incorporates long-standing principles of conduct the Company and the Board
follow to ensure the Company’s business and the activities of the Board are
conducted with integrity, adherence to the highest ethical standards, and in
compliance with the law.
The Company’s Business Conduct
Policies for employees and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for
Directors are available on our Web site at www.3M.com under Investor
Relations — Corporate Governance and copies of these policies are also
available to any stockholder upon request to Investor Relations.
10 


Related Person Transaction Policy and Procedures
The Board of Directors has adopted a written policy
requiring that the Nominating and Governance Committee shall review and approve
or ratify any transaction between the Company and any related person that is
required to be disclosed. For purposes of this practice the terms “transaction”
and “related person” have the meaning contained in Item 404 of Regulation S-K.
In the course of its review and approval or ratification of a transaction, the
Committee shall consider:
1.               the nature of the
related person’s interest in the transaction;
2.               the material terms
of the transaction, including whether the transaction is on terms no less
favorable than terms generally available to an unaffiliated third-party under
the same or similar circumstances;
3.               the significance of
the transaction to the related person;
4.               the significance of
the transaction to the Company;
5.               whether the
transaction would impair the judgment of a director or executive officer to act
in the best interest of the Company; and
6.               any other matters
the Committee deems appropriate.
Any Committee member who is a related person with
respect to a transaction under review may not participate in the deliberations
or vote respecting such approval or ratification, provided, however, that such
director may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of
the Committee which considers the transaction.
11




BOARD AND COMMITTEE
MEMBERSHIP
The Board currently has
ten directors and the following four Committees: Audit, Compensation, Finance,
and Nominating and Governance. In May 2006, the Board dissolved the Public
Issues Committee, reassigned most of its duties to the Compensation and
Nominating and Governance Committees, and formed a Finance Committee. The
membership during 2006 and the function of each Committee are described below.
During 2006, the Board of Directors held five
regularly scheduled meetings and three special meetings. Seven and two of our
incumbent directors attended 100 and 95 percent, respectively, of the regularly
scheduled and special meetings of the Board and Board Committees on which they
served in 2006. Kevin W. Sharer, who is not standing for re-election, attended
71 percent of the regularly scheduled and special meetings of the Board and
Board Committees on which he served in 2006. Mr. Sharer, who is Chairman
of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Amgen Inc., did not attend several
meetings to avoid even the appearance of a potential conflict of interest
relating to the Company’s sale of its branded pharmaceuticals business.
The Company has a long-standing policy that directors
are expected to attend the Annual Meeting of Stockholders unless extenuating
circumstances prevent them from attending. All directors attended last year’s
Annual Meeting of Stockholders, except one director who was unable to attend
due to illness.
The Board
and each Committee conducted an evaluation of their performance in 2006.




 Name of Non-Employee Director


 


 


Audit


 


 


Compensation


 


 


Finance


 


 


Nominating
  and
  Governance


 




 Linda G.
  Alvarado


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Vance D.
  Coffman


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


*


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 




 W. James
  Farrell


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Michael L.
  Eskew


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


*


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Edward M.
  Liddy


 


 


 


X


*


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 




 Robert S.
  Morrison


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 




 Aulana L.
  Peters


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Rozanne L.
  Ridgway


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


*


 




 Kevin W. Sharer


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




X = Committee Member; * =
Chair
12 


Audit Committee
In 2006, the Audit
Committee met eight times. The Committee assists the Board in its oversight of
the integrity of the Company’s financial statements, compliance with legal and
regulatory requirements, the qualifications, independence, and performance of
the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm (the “Independent
Accounting Firm”), and the performance of the Company’s internal auditing
department. In addition, the Committee:
·                    Reviews the
annual audited and quarterly consolidated financial statements;
·                    Reviews the
Company’s financial reporting process and disclosure and internal controls and
procedures, including major issues regarding accounting principles and
financial statement presentation, and critical accounting policies to be used
in the consolidated financial statements;
·                    Reviews and
discusses with management and the Independent Accounting Firm the Company’s
internal controls report and the Independent Accounting Firm’s attestation of
the report;
·                    By delegation to the chair, reviews
earnings press releases prior to issuance;
·                    Appoints, oversees, and approves
compensation of the Independent Accounting Firm;
·                    Reviews with the Independent
Accounting Firm the scope of the annual audit, including fees and staffing, and
approves all audit and permitted non-audit services provided by the Independent
Accounting Firm;
·                    Reviews findings and
recommendations of the Independent Accounting Firm and management’s response to
the recommendations of the Independent Accounting Firm;
·                    Discusses policies with respect to
risk assessment and risk management, the Company’s major risk exposures, and
the steps management has taken to monitor and mitigate such exposures; and
·                    Reviews compliance with the Company’s
business conduct policies.
The Board of Directors has
determined that all of the Audit Committee members are “independent,” “financially
literate,” and have “accounting or related financial management expertise”
under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The Board has also
determined that all of the Audit Committee members — Edward M. Liddy
(chair), Linda G. Alvarado, Michael L. Eskew, and W. James Farrell — are
“audit committee financial experts” as that term is defined by applicable SEC
regulations. The charter of the Audit Committee is available at www.3M.com
under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — Committee
Composition and attached as Appendix C to this proxy statement.
Compensation Committee
In 2006, the Compensation Committee met seven times.
The Committee reviews the Company’s compensation practices and policies,
annually reviews and approves (subject to ratification by the independent
directors of the Board) the compensation for the CEO, annually reviews and
approves the compensation for the other senior executives, evaluates CEO
performance, reviews and discusses with management of the Company the
Compensation Discussion and Analysis prepared in accordance with the SEC’s
disclosure rules for executive compensation, and furnishes a report for
inclusion in the Company’s proxy statement. In addition, the Committee:
·                    Approves the adoption, amendment,
and termination of incentive compensation and deferred compensation programs
for employees of the Company;
13 


·                    Approves, subject to ratification
by the independent directors of the Board, employment agreements and severance
arrangements for the CEO, as appropriate;
·                    Approves for the senior executives
of the Company (other than the CEO) employment agreements and severance
arrangements, as appropriate;
·                    Interprets and supervises the
administration of the Company’s stock and long-term incentive compensation
programs, and determines the employees who receive awards and the size of their
awards under such programs;
·                    Reviews and makes recommendations
to the Board of Directors concerning the design of the pension and other
postretirement benefit plans that have a material financial impact upon the
Company; and
·                    Periodically reviews human resource
issues relating to the Company’s polices and practices with respect to
workforce diversity and equal employment opportunities.
The Board of Directors has
determined that all Compensation Committee members are “independent” under the
New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The Board has also determined that
each Compensation Committee member qualifies as a “Non-Employee Director” under
Rule 16b-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that each
member (except Robert S. Morrison due to his service as interim CEO), qualifies
as an “outside director” under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue
Code. The charter of the Compensation Committee is available at www.3M.com
under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — Committee
Composition and attached as Appendix D to this proxy statement.
Finance Committee
The Finance Committee,
created by the Board in May 2006, met two times in 2006. The Committee
assists the Board with its oversight of the Company’s capital structure,
financing, investment, and other financial matters of importance to the
Company. In addition, the Committee:
·                    Reviews and recommends for approval
by the Board the dividend policy and the declaration of dividends or other
forms of distributions on the Company’s stock, such as stock splits in the form
of a stock dividend;
·                    Reviews and recommends for approval
by the Board the repurchase of the Company’s stock;
·                    Reviews and recommends for approval
by the Board the Company’s short- and long-term borrowings;
·                    Reviews and recommends for approval
by the Board the registration and issuance of the Company’s debt or equity
securities, except in the case of the issuance of debt or equity securities in
connection with a merger or acquisition transaction which is presented to the
Board;
·                    Periodically reviews the Company’s
ratings from credit rating agencies;
·                    Reviews and recommends for approval
by the Board an annual capital expenditure budget and revisions to that budget;
·                    Reviews and recommends for approval
by the Board capital expenditures in excess of $50,000,000;
14 


·                    Reviews and evaluates any risks
associated with the Company’s use of or investment in financial products,
including derivatives used to manage risk related to foreign currencies,
commodity prices, and interest rates;
·                    Periodically reviews the Company’s
insurance coverage; and
·                    Periodically reviews the funding of
the Company’s pension and other benefit plans.
The Board of Directors has
determined that all Finance Committee members are “independent” under the New
York Stock Exchange listing standards. The charter of the Finance Committee is
available at www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate
Governance — Committee Composition and attached as Appendix E to
this proxy statement.
Nominating and
Governance Committee
In 2006, the Nominating
and Governance Committee met five times. The Committee establishes Board
membership criteria, assists the Board by identifying individuals qualified to
become Board members, recommends to the Board matters of corporate governance,
facilitates the annual review of the performance of the Board and its
Committees, and periodically reviews CEO and management succession plans. In
addition, the Committee:
·                    Selects and recommends candidates
to the Board of Directors to be submitted for election at the Annual Meeting
and candidates to fill any vacancies on the Board, including stockholder
nominees for director (submitted in accordance with the Company’s Bylaws). The
Committee considers all candidates in light of the Board membership criteria
adopted by the Board of Directors;
·                    Reviews and makes recommendations
to the Board of Directors concerning the composition and size of the Board and
its Committees, Board membership criteria, frequency of meetings, and directors’
fees;
·                    Reviews the Company’s Corporate
Governance Guidelines at least annually, and recommends any proposed changes to
the Board for approval;
·                    Develops and recommends to the
Board standards to be applied in making determinations on the types of
relationships that constitute material relationships between the Company and a
director for purposes of determining director independence;
·                    Reviews and approves or ratifies
any transaction between the Company and any related person, which is required
to be disclosed under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission;
·                    Develops and recommends to the
Board for its approval an annual self-assessment process of the Board and its
Committees and oversees the process;
·                    Reviews periodically with the
Chairman/CEO succession plans relating to positions held by elected corporate
officers, and makes recommendations to the Board with respect to the selection
of individuals to occupy these positions; and
·                    Periodically reviews the corporate
contribution program and the activities of the 3M Foundation.
The Board of Directors has
determined that all Nominating and Governance Committee members are “independent”
under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The charter of the
Nominating and Governance Committee is available at www.3M.com under
Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — Committee Composition and
attached as Appendix F to this proxy statement.
15 


DIRECTOR
COMPENSATION AND STOCK OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES
Annual
compensation for nonemployee directors for 2006 was comprised of the following
components: cash compensation, consisting of annual retainer and committee
fees; and equity compensation, consisting of the annual stock award. Each of
these components is described in more detail below. The total 2006 compensation
of our nonemployee directors is shown in the following table:




 Director


 


 


Fees Earned
  or Paid in
  Cash($)


 


 


Stock
  Awards ($)


 


 


Total
  ($)(1)


 




 Linda G.
  Alvarado


 


 


 


$


75,000


 


 


 


 


$


95,000


 


 


 


 


$


170,000


 


 




 Vance D.
  Coffman*


 


 


 


125


 


 


 


 


179,559


 


 


 


 


179,684


 


 




 Michael L.
  Eskew*


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


179,684


 


 


 


 


179,684


 


 




 W. James
  Farrell


 


 


 


28,533


 


 


 


 


36,438


 


 


 


 


64,971


 


 




 Edward M.
  Liddy*


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


185,000


 


 


 


 


185,000


 


 




 Robert S.
  Morrison


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


170,000


 


 


 


 


170,000


 


 




 Aulana L.
  Peters


 


 


 


80,357


 


 


 


 


95,000


 


 


 


 


175,357


 


 




 Rozanne L.
  Ridgway*


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


185,000


 


 


 


 


185,000


 


 




 Kevin W. Sharer


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


170,000


 


 


 


 


170,000


 


 




*                    Chair of
Committee
(1)            Includes fees
associated with chairing a board committee
Annual Board/Committee Chair Fees. Nonemployee directors received an annual cash
retainer of $75,000 per year. In addition, the chair of a Board committee received
an additional annual fee of $15,000. In lieu of the cash fees, a director may
elect to receive common stock of the Company at current fair market value.
Stock Awards. Each nonemployee director is entitled to receive
$95,000 payable in May of each year in common stock of the Company
pursuant to the terms of the Company’s 1992 Directors Stock Ownership Program.
Deferred Compensation. Each nonemployee director may defer all or part of
their annual cash fees or stock award until they cease to be members of the Board.
For directors who have made an election to defer their fees payable in cash,
the Company will credit their account with compensation due on the 45th day of
each calendar quarter. Interest at the prime rate (as charged by Wells Fargo
Bank on the first day of each calendar quarter) will be credited to each
account from the date of deposit, at the end of each calendar quarter and
immediately preceding any distribution. For directors who have made an election
to defer their annual stock award or annual cash fees into a common stock
equivalents account, the Company shall credit their account with 3M common
stock equivalents (including fractional share equivalents) which could have
been purchased on the first day of the calendar quarter using the closing price
of 3M common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the last business day
immediately preceding such date. 3M common stock equivalents equal to dividends
paid on 3M common stock shall be credited to such an account on each dividend
payment date. The share equivalents shall be determined by using the closing
price of 3M common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the sixth business
day preceding the dividend record date. Appropriate adjustments shall be made
to the accounts for stock splits, stock dividends, merger, consolidation,
payment of dividends in other than cash, and similar circumstances affecting 3M
common stock.
Expenses. Nonemployee directors are reimbursed for their
expenses in connection with attending Board meetings (including expenses
related to spouses when they are invited to attend 
16 


Board
events). Nonemployee directors may use the Company aircraft for travel to and
from 3M Board meetings.
Stock Ownership
Guidelines. The Board has
adopted stock ownership guidelines that provide that each director should
attain over three successive terms an investment position in 3M’s stock
(including deferred common stock equivalents) equal to two times the annual
retainer. All directors currently meet these stock ownership guidelines except
for W. James Farrell who has been a director for less than one year.
Information regarding accumulated stock and deferred stock units is set forth
in the section entitled “Common Stock Ownership of Directors and Executive
Officers.”  Currently, 85 percent of
director compensation is paid in 3M stock or 3M common stock equivalents.
Matching Gift Program. The nonemployee directors are eligible to
participate in the matching gift program on the same terms as 3M employees.
Under this program, the 3M Foundation will match up to a total of $5,000 a year
in contributions by the director to eligible institutions of higher education
or public broadcasting organizations.
Process for Setting Director Compensation. The Nominating and Governance Committee
periodically receives reports on the status of Board compensation in relation
to other large U.S. companies and is responsible for recommending to the Board
changes in compensation for nonemployee directors. Periodically, the Company,
through its human resources department, requests Frederic W. Cook &
Co., Inc. to conduct a survey of director compensation at other large U.S.
companies. Neither the Company nor the Nominating and Governance Committee has
any contractual arrangement with any other compensation consultant who has a
role in determining or recommending the amount or form of director
compensation.
17




PROPOSALS
TO BE VOTED ON
PROPOSAL
NO. 1
ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
The Board of Directors currently has ten members. Except
for Kevin W. Sharer, each of the Board members is standing for re-election to
hold office until the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders. A new nominee,
Herbert L. Henkel, is also standing for election.
A plurality of votes cast is
required for the election of directors. However, under the Company’s Corporate
Governance Guidelines, any nominee for
director in an uncontested election (i.e., an election where the only nominees
are those recommended by the Board) who receives a greater number of votes “withheld”
from his or her election than votes “for” such election (a “Majority Withheld
Vote”) will promptly tender his or her resignation for consideration by the
Nominating and Governance Committee.
The Nominating and Governance
Committee will promptly consider the best interests of 3M and its stockholders
and recommend to a committee of independent directors of the Board whether to
accept the tendered resignation or to take some other action, such as rejecting
the resignation and addressing the apparent underlying causes of the withheld
votes.
The Board will create a
committee of all the independent directors who did not receive a Majority Withheld
Vote to consider the Nominating and Governance Committee’s recommendation and
take action within 90 days following the uncontested election. Thereafter, the
committee of independent directors will promptly disclose its decision and an
explanation of how the decision was reached in a Current Report on Form 8-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If one or more members of the
Nominating and Governance Committee receive a Majority Withheld Vote, then the
Board will create a committee of independent directors who did not receive a
Majority Withheld Vote to consider the resignation offers of all directors
receiving a Majority Withheld Vote and determine whether to accept the tendered
resignation(s) or to take some other action and promptly disclose their
decision as described above.
Except as provided in the next
sentence, a director receiving a Majority Withheld Vote shall remain active and
engaged in Board activities during this Nominating and Governance Committee and
Board process. Any director who receives a Majority Withheld Vote and tenders
his or her resignation pursuant to this provision will not participate in the
committee action regarding whether to accept the tendered resignation offer or
take some other action. However, if the only directors who did not receive a
Majority Withheld Vote in the same election constitute three or fewer
independent directors, then all independent directors may participate in the
committee action regarding whether to accept the resignation offer(s) or
to take some other action.
Each nominee elected as a director will continue in
office until his or her successor has been elected and qualified, or until his
or her earlier death, resignation, or retirement.
We expect each nominee for
election as a director to be able to serve if elected. If any nominee is not
able to serve, proxies will be voted in favor of the remainder of those
nominated and may be voted for substitute nominees, unless the Board chooses to
reduce the number of directors serving on the Board.
The principal occupation and
certain other information about the nominees is set forth on the following
pages.
The Proxy Committee appointed
by the Board of Directors intends to vote the proxy (if you are a stockholder of
record) for the election of each of these nominees, unless you indicate on the
proxy card that your vote should be withheld from any or all of the nominees.
The Board of Directors unanimously recommends a vote “FOR”
the election of these nominees as directors.
18 


Nominees for Directors:






 


Linda G. Alvarado, 55, President and Chief
  Executive Officer, Alvarado Construction, Inc. In 1976,
  Ms. Alvarado founded Alvarado Construction, Inc. and has overseen
  the growth of that enterprise as a commercial general contracting firm.
  Ms. Alvarado is on the boards of the following public companies in
  addition to 3M: Lennox International Inc., Pitney Bowes, Inc., The Pepsi
  Bottling Group, Inc., and QWEST Communications International, Inc.
Director since 2000.




 


 


 







 


George W. Buckley, 60, Chairman of the Board,
  President and Chief Executive Officer since December 2005.
  Before joining 3M in 2005, Mr. Buckley was Chairman of the Board,
  President and Chief Executive Officer of the Brunswick Corporation since
  2000, and served in other executive positions at Brunswick Corporation from
  1997 to 2000. Mr. Buckley is on the board of the following public
  company in addition to 3M: The Black & Decker Corporation.
Director since 2005.




 


 


 







 


Vance D. Coffman, 62, Retired Chairman of the
  Board and Chief Executive Officer, Lockheed Martin Corporation, a high
  technology aerospace and defense company. Dr. Coffman served
  in various executive capacities at Lockheed Martin Corporation before
  becoming Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 1998. He retired as Chief
  Executive Officer in 2004 and as Chairman of the Board in 2005.
  Dr. Coffman is on the boards of the following public companies in
  addition to 3M: Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Deere & Company.
Director since 2002.




 


 


 







 


Michael L. Eskew, 57, Chairman of the Board
  and Chief Executive Officer, United Parcel Service, Inc., a provider of specialized transportation
  and logistics services, since 2002. Mr. Eskew was appointed
  Executive Vice President in 1999 and Vice Chairman in 2000 before becoming
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in January 2002. Mr. Eskew is
  on the board of the following public company in addition to 3M and United
  Parcel Service: International Business Machines Corp.
Director since 2003.




 


 


 







 


W. James Farrell, 64, Retired Chairman and
  Chief Executive Officer, Illinois Tool Works Inc., a multi-national
  manufacturer of highly engineered fasteners, components, assemblies and
  systems. Mr. Farrell served in various executive capacities
  since joining ITW before becoming Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in
  1996. He retired as Chief Executive Officer in 2005 and as Chairman in 2006.
  Mr. Farrell is on the boards of the following public companies in
  addition to 3M: Abbott Laboratories, The Allstate Corporation, and UAL
  Corporation.
Director since 2006.



 
19 


 







 


Herbert L. Henkel, 59, Chairman of the Board
  (since May 2000), President and Chief Executive Officer (since October 1999),
  Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited, a manufacturer of industrial products and
  components. Mr. Henkel served as President and Chief Operating
  Officer of Ingersoll-Rand from April 1999 to October 1999.  Mr. Henkel is on the board of the following
  public company in addition to 3M and Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited:  C.R. Bard, Inc.
New
  nominee.




 


 


 







 


Edward M. Liddy, 61, Chairman and Former
  Chief Executive Officer of The Allstate Corporation, the parent of Allstate
  Insurance Company, a personal lines insurance company. He served
  as President and Chief Operating Officer of The Allstate Corporation from
  1994 to 1998. Mr. Liddy is on the board of the following public company
  in addition to 3M and The Allstate Corporation: Goldman Sachs
  Group, Inc.
Director since 2000.




 


 


 







 


Robert S. Morrison, 64, Retired Vice Chairman of
  PepsiCo, Inc., a processor of packaged foods and beverages.
  Mr. Morrison served as Vice Chairman of PepsiCo, Inc. from 2001 to
  February 2003. From 1997 until the 2001 merger with PepsiCo,
  Mr. Morrison was Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of The
  Quaker Oats Company. From June 30 to December 6, 2005,
  Mr. Morrison served as interim Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
  Officer of 3M Company. Mr. Morrison is on the boards of the following
  public companies in addition to 3M: AON Corporation, Illinois Tool
  Works, Inc., and the Tribune Company.
Director since 2002.




 


 


 







 


Aulana L. Peters, 65, Retired
  Partner, Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP. Mrs. Peters is a retired partner of the
  law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher where she was a partner from
  1980 to 1984 and 1988 to 2000. From 1984 to 1988, she served as a
  Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission. From
  January 2001 to April 2002, Mrs. Peters served as a member of
  the Public Oversight Board (“POB”) of the American Institute of Certified
  Public Accountants. Mrs. Peters has also served as a member of the
  Steering Committee for Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Financial
  Reporting Project and a member of the POB’s Blue Ribbon Panel on Audit
  Effectiveness. Currently, Mrs. Peters serves on the U.S. Comptroller
  General’s Accountability Advisory Panel and is a member of the International
  Public Interest Oversight Board which oversees the standard setting process
  of the International Federation of Accountants for auditing, assurance,
  independence and ethics standards. Mrs. Peters is on the boards of the
  following public companies in addition to 3M: Deere & Company,
  Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc., and Northrop Grumman Corporation.
Director since 1990.




 


 


 







 


Rozanne L. Ridgway, 71, Former Assistant
  Secretary of State for Europe and Canada. Ambassador Ridgway
  served in the U.S. Foreign Service from 1957 to 1989, including assignments
  as Ambassador for Oceans and Fisheries Affairs, Ambassador to Finland and to
  the German Democratic Republic, and from 1985 and until her retirement in
  1989, Assistant Secretary of State for European and Canadian Affairs. Ambassador
  Ridgway served as President until 1993 and Co-Chair until mid-1996 of
  the Atlantic Council of the United States, an association to promote better
  understanding of major foreign policy issues. Ambassador Ridgway is on the
  boards of the following public companies in addition to 3M: The Boeing
  Company, Emerson Electric Co., Manpower Inc., and Sara Lee Corporation. She
  is also a director in three funds in the American Funds complex.
Director since 1989.




 
20




PROPOSAL
NO. 2
RATIFICATION OF THE
APPOINTMENT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
The Audit Committee has appointed
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm
to audit the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the year ending December 31,
2007. If the stockholders do not ratify the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, the Audit Committee will reconsider the selection.
During 2006, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP served as the
Company’s independent registered public accounting firm and also provided
certain tax and other audit-related services. For a description of those
services and the fees paid, see section entitled “Fees of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm.”
Representatives of PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP are expected to attend the Annual Meeting where they will be available to
respond to questions and, if they desire, to make a statement.
Recommendation of the
Board
The Board of Directors recommends a vote “FOR” the
ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company’s
independent registered public accounting firm. Proxies solicited by the Board
of Directors will be voted “FOR” ratification unless a contrary vote is
specified.
PROPOSAL
NO. 3
PROPOSAL TO AMEND THE
COMPANY’S RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION TO
ELIMINATE THE SUPERMAJORITY VOTE REQUIREMENTS
Stockholders are being asked to approve an amendment
to the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate the
supermajority vote requirements and fair price provision by deleting Article ELEVENTH
(“Amendment No.1”).
In determining whether Amendment No. 1 is in the
best interests of the Company’s stockholders, the Nominating and Governance
Committee and the Board considered arguments for and against the supermajority
vote requirement that was adopted by the Board and approved by the stockholders
in 1986. The Board considered that the provisions that require a supermajority
vote to amend certain provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation
can be viewed as facilitating corporate governance stability by requiring broad
stockholder consensus to effect changes.
The Board also considered the views of investors who
believe that these provisions are inconsistent with principles of good corporate
governance in that they limit stockholders’ ability to participate effectively
in corporate governance. According to some investors, the requirement of a
supermajority vote can limit the ability of a majority of the stockholders at
any particular time to effect change by essentially providing a veto to a large
minority stockholder or group of stockholders. In addition, a lower threshold
for stockholder votes can increase stockholders’ ability to participate
effectively in corporate governance.
After weighing all of these considerations, the
Nominating and Governance Committee recommended the elimination of the
supermajority vote requirements, and the Board agreed and determined that Amendment
No. 1 is advisable and in the best interests of the Company and its
stockholders. The Board of Directors has adopted resolutions approving and
declaring the advisability of Amendment No. 1 and recommends that the
stockholders approve Amendment No. 1 by voting in favor of this Proposal.
The current supermajority vote provision and the proposed amendment are
described in greater detail below.
21 


Supermajority Vote Requirements
Article ELEVENTH of our Restated Certificate of
Incorporation requires the affirmative vote of at least 80 percent of our
outstanding voting stock to amend, alter, or repeal our Bylaws or certain
provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation. The proposed Amendment
No. 1 would remove the 80 percent supermajority vote requirement
currently in place to approve, alter, amend, or repeal the provisions of the
Restated Certificate of Incorporation relating to:
·       To
amend, alter, or repeal any provision of our Bylaws; and
·       To amend, alter, or repeal Article ELEVENTH
or Article THIRTEENTH of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation. (The
Company has separately asked stockholders to repeal Article THIRTEENTH in
Proposal No. 4.)
If stockholders approve
Amendment No. 1, the principal effect will be that those provisions may be
amended, altered, or repealed upon approval of the Board of Directors and the
vote of the holders of a majority of 3M’s outstanding stock entitled to vote on
such amendment.
The Board has separately proposed to repeal other
provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as discussed in “Proposal No. 4: Proposal to Amend the Company’s Restated
Certificate of Incorporation to Eliminate the Fair Price Provision.”
The amendments to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation proposed under
Proposal No. 3 and Proposal No. 4 are set forth in Appendix G-1,
with deletions indicated by strikeout and additions indicated by underline that
will be made to the extent stockholders approve the amendments. The current
provisions and proposed amendment described above are qualified in their
entirety by reference to the actual text as set forth in Appendix G-1.
Vote Required:   The
affirmative vote of at least 80 percent of all outstanding shares of
Common Stock is required for approval of this proposal. An abstention on this
proposal is not an affirmative vote and therefore will have the same effect as
a vote against this proposal.
Effective Date:   If
approved by the stockholders, the amendment to the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation would become effective upon the filing with the Secretary of
State of Delaware of a Certificate of Amendment, which is set forth in Appendix
G-2 attached hereto (in a form assuming both amendments to the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation described in Proposal No. 3 and Proposal No. 4
are approved, which will be modified to the extent stockholders do not approve
both amendments), which filing is expected to take place shortly after the
stockholders approve the amendment.
Recommendation of the
Board
The Board of Directors unanimously recommends that
stockholders vote “FOR” this proposal to amend the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation to eliminate all supermajority vote requirements. Proxies
solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted “FOR” this proposal unless a
contrary vote is specified.
PROPOSAL NO. 4
PROPOSAL TO AMEND THE COMPANY’S RESTATED CERTIFICATE
OF INCORPORATION TO
ELIMINATE THE FAIR PRICE PROVISION
Stockholders are being asked to approve an amendment
to the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate the fair
price provision by deleting Article THIRTEENTH (“Amendment No. 2”).
Our Board, after careful consideration and upon
recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee, has concluded that
it is in the best interests of the Company’s stockholders 
22 


to propose Amendment No. 2
to the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation to repeal the fair price
provision and to request stockholder approval of that amendment.
A fair price provision is an anti-takeover measure
designed to help companies defend against certain kinds of tender offers, known
as coercive, two-tiered tender offers. In this type of takeover, a potential
acquirer will offer one price for the shares needed to gain control of a target
company and then offer a lower price or other less favorable consideration for
the remaining shares, thereby creating pressure for stockholders to tender their
shares for the tender offer price, regardless of their value. Standard fair
price provisions encourage a potential acquirer to negotiate with a company’s
board of directors by requiring the potential acquirer to pay a “fair price”
for all shares as determined under a specified formulation, unless the acquirer’s
offer has satisfied specified board or stockholder approval requirements.
Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation
Law (“DGCL”) contains provisions that provide similar protection to those under
Article THIRTEENTH. When Article THIRTEENTH of our Restated
Certificate of Incorporation was adopted in 1986, Section 203 of the DGCL
had not yet been enacted. The Board believes the protection afforded by Section 203
of the DGCL is sufficient, and that a separate provision in the Restated Certificate
of Incorporation is no longer necessary.
After weighing all of these considerations, the
Nominating and Governance Committee recommended the elimination of the fair
price provision, and the Board agreed and determined that Amendment No. 2
is advisable and in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. The
Board of Directors has adopted resolutions approving and declaring the
advisability of Amendment No. 2 and recommends that the stockholders
approve Amendment No. 2 by voting in favor of this Proposal. The current fair
price provision and the proposed amendment are described in greater detail
below.
Fair Price Provision
Article THIRTEENTH of our
Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which is sometimes referred to as a “fair
price” provision, currently requires the affirmative vote of the holders of at
least 80 percent of the outstanding voting stock to approve certain
transactions involving any person or group that beneficially owns at least 10 percent
of our outstanding voting stock (a “Related Person”). Under the proposed
amendments, this Article would be deleted in its entirety. The current
requirements of Article THIRTEENTH apply to the following transactions
between a Related Person and 3M:
·       A
merger or consolidation;
·       Any
sale, lease, exchange, transfer, or other disposition of all or any substantial
part (more than five percent of the fair market value) of the assets of 3M or
any of its subsidiaries;
·       Any sale, lease, exchange,
transfer, or other disposition of all or any substantial part (more than five
percent of the fair market value) of the assets of an entity to 3M or any of
its subsidiaries;
·       The issuance, sale,
exchange, transfer, or other disposition by 3M or its subsidiaries of any
securities of 3M or its subsidiaries;
·       Any recapitalization or
reclassification of the securities of 3M or other transaction that would have
the effect of increasing the voting power of a Related Person or reducing the
number of shares of each class of voting stock outstanding; or
·       Any
liquidation, spin-off, split-off, split up, or dissolution of 3M.
This 80 percent voting requirement does not apply to (a) transactions
approved by the vote of the majority of the Continuing Directors (directors who
were directors prior to the time the Related Person became a Related Person,
and directors recommended for election by such directors) and (b) in the 
23 


case of any business
transaction involving a merger or consolidation or sale of substantially all of
the assets, the aggregate amount of cash to be received per share in connection
with such business transaction is at least equal in value to the highest
price per share of common stock paid by the Related Person in the transaction
which resulted in such Related Person becoming a Related Person or within one
year prior to the date such Related Person became a Related Person, whichever
is higher. Article THIRTEENTH also includes a requirement that Article THIRTEENTH
can only be amended, altered, or repealed with the affirmative vote of the
holders of at least 80 percent of all of the then outstanding shares of voting
stock, voting together as a single class.
The repeal of Article THIRTEENTH
will have two principal effects on stockholder voting: First, those
transactions covered by Article THIRTEENTH that would otherwise require a
stockholder vote under the Delaware General Corporation Law would require the
vote of the holders of a majority of our outstanding stock, rather than an 80 percent
supermajority vote. Second, the Board of Directors will be able to effect, without
obtaining stockholder approval, those transactions covered by Article THIRTEENTH
that do not otherwise require stockholder approval under Delaware law.
3M will continue to be subject to Section 203 of
the Delaware General Corporation Law without regard to whether the proposed
amendments are approved. Section 203 provides, in general, that a
transaction constituting a “business combination” within the meaning of Section 203
involving a person owning 15 percent or more of our voting stock (referred to as
an “interested stockholder”), cannot be completed for a period of three years
after the date the person became an interested stockholder unless (1) the
Board of Directors approved either the business combination or the transaction
that resulted in the person becoming an interested stockholder prior to such
business combination or transaction, (2) upon consummation of the
transaction that resulted in the person becoming an interested stockholder,
that person owned at least 85 percent of our outstanding voting stock
(excluding shares owned by persons who are directors and also officers of 3M
and shares owned by certain 3M employee benefit plans), or (3) the
business combination was approved by the Board of Directors and by the
affirmative vote of at least 662¤3 percent of
our outstanding voting stock not owned by the interested stockholder.
The Board has
separately proposed to repeal other provisions of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, as discussed in “Proposal No. 3:
Proposal to Amend the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation to
Eliminate the Supermajority Vote Requirements.” The amendments to
the Restated Certificate of Incorporation proposed under Proposal No. 3
and Proposal No. 4 are set forth in Appendix G-1, with
deletions indicated by strikeout and additions indicated by underline that will
be made to the extent stockholders approve the amendments. The current
provisions and proposed amendment described above are qualified in their
entirety by reference to the actual text as set forth in Appendix G-1.
Vote Required:   The
affirmative vote of at least 80 percent of all outstanding shares of
Common Stock is required for approval of this proposal. An abstention on this
proposal is not an affirmative vote and therefore will have the same effect as
a vote against this proposal.
Effective Date:   If
approved by the stockholders, the amendment to the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation would become effective upon the filing with the Secretary of
State of Delaware of a Certificate of Amendment, which is set forth in Appendix
G-2 attached hereto (in a form assuming both amendments to the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation described in Proposal No. 3 and Proposal
No. 4 are approved, which will be modified to the extent stockholders do
not approve both amendments), which filing is expected to take place shortly
after the stockholders approve the amendment.
24




Recommendation of the
Board
The Board of Directors unanimously recommends that
stockholders vote “FOR” this proposal to amend the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation to eliminate the “fair price” provision. Proxies solicited by the
Board of Directors will be voted “FOR” this proposal unless a contrary vote is
specified.
PROPOSAL NO. 5
PROPOSAL
TO APPROVE THE EXECUTIVE ANNUAL INCENTIVE PLAN
At its meeting on February 11, 2007, the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the “Committee”) adopted the
3M Executive Annual Incentive Plan (the “Annual Incentive Plan” or the “Plan”).
This Annual Incentive Plan replaces the Executive Profit Sharing Plan by which
the Company previously provided short-term incentive compensation to certain of
its executive officers. This change is part of the Company’s strategy of
replacing quarterly profit sharing as its primary vehicle for delivering
short-term incentive compensation to employees with annual incentive
compensation. This strategy is intended to accomplish a number of objectives,
all of which are consistent with delivering increased stockholder value.
The Annual Incentive Plan is
intended to comply with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Internal
Revenue Code, so that the Company is able to deduct for federal income tax
purposes payments of annual incentive compensation made to its Named Executive Officers
(as identified in the Summary Compensation Table in this proxy statement). In
general, Section 162(m) imposes a limit on the amount of compensation
paid to a corporation’s Named Executive Officers that may be deducted for federal
income tax purposes. This limit does not apply to compensation that is
considered “performance-based” for purposes of Section 162(m). One of the
conditions for compensation to be considered “performance-based” under Section
162(m) requires that the material terms under which such compensation will
be paid, including the performance goals, be disclosed to and approved by stockholders.
Thus, when the Compensation Committee adopted the Annual Incentive Plan, it
made its approval subject to the condition that the Plan be approved by a
majority vote of the Company’s stockholders at the Company’s next annual
meeting.
Summary of the Annual
Incentive Plan
The following is only a
summary of the material terms of the Annual Incentive Plan and is qualified in
its entirety by reference to the full plan document for the Plan, which is
attached as Appendix H to this proxy statement.
1.               What are the purposes of the Annual Incentive Plan? — The
purposes of the Plan are to attract and retain highly qualified individuals to
serve as executive officers of the Company, to focus their attention on
achieving certain business objectives established for the Company and its business
units, and to provide these individuals with incentive compensation that is
designed to qualify as performance-based compensation for purposes of Section
162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
2.               Who is eligible to participate in the Annual Incentive Plan? — Participation
in the Plan is limited to the Named Executive Officers of the Company and those
other senior executives of the Company whose compensation is approved by the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. The Named Executive Officers
are those individuals covered by the SEC’s disclosure requirements for
executive compensation (as reflected in the Summary Compensation Table in this
proxy statement).
3.               Who administers the Annual Incentive Plan? — The
Compensation Committee will administer the Plan. The Committee has full power
and authority to interpret the Plan, establish, amend 
25 


and rescind any rules, forms
or procedures as it deems necessary for the proper administration of the Plan,
determine the manner and time of payment of the annual compensation payable
under the Plan, and to take any other action as it deems necessary or advisable
in connection with the Plan. The Committee may delegate any of its
administrative responsibilities in connection with the Plan to the appropriate
employees of the Company.
4.               How are the amounts of annual incentive compensation paid under the
Plan determined? — The Plan establishes limits on the maximum
annual incentive payable to any participating individual for any year. For the Named
Executive Officers of the Company, this limit is one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the adjusted net income of the Company for the year. For all other
individuals participating in the Plan, this limit is one tenth of one percent
(0.1%) of the adjusted net income of the Company for the year. Subject to these
limits, the Committee determines the amount of each individual’s annual
incentive opportunity for each year and has the discretion to reduce the annual
incentive payable to such individual below the applicable limit.
5.               How are annual incentive compensation payments made under the Plan? — Payments
may be made in the form of cash or in the form of shares of 3M common stock,
restricted stock, or restricted stock units delivered pursuant to the Company’s
Management Stock Ownership Program. All payments for a year will be made no
later than March 15 of the following year, but not until the Committee has
certified in writing that the performance goal for the year has been satisfied
and that the limits on the maximum annual incentive payable to any individual
participating in the Plan have not been exceeded.
6.               Under what circumstances may an individual lose the right to receive
annual incentive compensation under the Plan? — If an
individual’s employment with 3M ends for any reason other than retirement or
death, that individual’s participation in the Plan will end and any annual
incentive compensation that would otherwise have been payable to such
individual for the year in which his or her employment ended will be forfeited.
7.               What are the federal income tax consequences of the annual incentive
compensation paid under the Plan? — Annual incentive compensation
payments made in cash or shares of 3M common stock will be taxed to the
recipient as ordinary income in the year of receipt. Annual incentive
compensation delivered in the form of restricted stock or restricted stock
units will be taxed to the recipient as ordinary income when the shares of
restricted stock or the restricted stock units vest. Assuming that 3M’s
stockholders approve the Plan and that the other requirements for
performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal
Revenue Code are satisfied, the Company will be entitled to a deduction for federal
income tax purposes equal to the amount of income recognized by participants in
the Plan in each year that such income is recognized.
8.               How long will the Annual Incentive Plan remain in effect, and may it be
changed? — The Plan became effective on January 1, 2007,
subject to the requirement that it be approved by a majority vote of the
Company’s stockholders at the Company’s next annual meeting. Once approved, the
Plan will remain in effect until terminated by the Compensation Committee. The
Committee may amend the Plan at any time, except that no amendment which would (a) increase
the limit on the annual incentive compensation payable to any participant, or (b) revise
the performance goal available for determining the amount of annual incentive
compensation payable under the Plan, will become effective until it has been
approved by a majority vote of the Company’s stockholders.
26 


Recommendation of the
Board
The Board of Directors
recommends a vote “FOR” the proposal to approve the adoption of the 3M
Executive Annual Incentive Plan as well as the material terms under which
compensation would be paid to individuals participating in such 3M Plan. Proxies
solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted “FOR” this proposal unless a
contrary vote is specified.
The affirmative “FOR” vote of a majority of those
shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to
vote is required to approve this proposal. If the proposal is not approved, the
Committee would need to decide whether to implement the Annual Incentive Plan
without stockholder approval, resume the previous Executive Profit Sharing Plan,
or select another method of delivering short-term incentive compensation.
PROPOSAL
NO. 6
PROPOSAL TO APPROVE THE
MATERIAL TERMS OF THE PERFORMANCE CRITERIA
UNDER THE PERFORMANCE UNIT PLAN
As described in the Compensation Discussion and
Analysis, the Performance Unit Plan is one element of the Company’s
compensation program for its executives. The Plan provides long-term incentive
compensation payable annually based on the Company’s attainment of the
performance criteria selected by the Compensation Committee for each year’s
awards. This performance is measured over rolling three-year periods.
The Plan was first
approved by the Company’s stockholders in 1981, and they have since approved
amendments to the Plan in 1994, 1997, and 2002. The last amendment expanded the
available performance criteria to include improvement in economic profit as well
as improvements in certain asset or financial measures. The performance
criteria used in making awards under the Plan since 2005 have been improvement
in economic profit and real worldwide sales growth.
At its meeting on February 11, 2007, the
Compensation Committee approved an amendment to the Plan which amends the
available performance criteria to include adjusted net income or improvement in
adjusted net income, earnings per share or improvement in earnings per share,
net sales, cash flow, gross margin, operating margin, earnings before interest
and taxes, EBITDA, economic value added, stock price, return on assets or net
assets, and operating income or improvement in operating income. As amended,
the performance criteria available to the Compensation Committee under the Plan
now include return on capital employed, return on assets or net assets, net
sales, sales growth, cash flow, earnings per share or improvement in earnings
per share, return on equity, stock price, gross margin, operating margin, total
shareholder return, economic value added, economic profit or improvement in
economic profit, earnings before interest and taxes, EBITDA, operating income
or improvement in operating income, improvements in certain asset or financial
measures, reductions in certain asset or cost areas, net income or variations
of net income in varying time periods, and comparisons with other peer
companies or industry groups or classifications with regard to one or more of
these criteria. As amended, the criteria may now apply either to the Company as
a whole or to any of its business segments.
In order to preserve the
Company’s ability to deduct for federal income tax purposes the payments made
under the Plan to certain of its executives, Section 162(m) of the
Internal Revenue Code and the regulations issued thereunder require that the
Company’s stockholders approve the material terms of these performance criteria
as amended by the Compensation Committee.
27 


Recommendation of the
Board
The Board of Directors
recommends a vote “FOR” the proposal to approve the material terms of the
performance criteria under the Performance Unit Plan. Proxies solicited by the
Board of Directors will be voted “FOR” this proposal unless a contrary vote is
specified.
The affirmative “FOR” vote of
a majority of those shares present in person or represented by proxy at the
meeting and entitled to vote is required to approve this proposal. If the
proposal is not approved, the available performance criteria under the Plan
will remain the same; however, some of the compensation paid to certain
executives under the Plan may not be deductible, resulting in additional costs
to the Company.
PROPOSAL
NO. 7
STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL ON
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
BASED ON THE PERFORMANCE OF PEER COMPANIES
3M has received a stockholder proposal from the United
Brotherhood of Carpenters Pension Fund (the “Proponent”). The Proponent has
requested the Company to include the following proposal and supporting
statement in its proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The
proposal may be voted on at the Annual Meeting only if properly presented by
the Proponent or the Proponent’s qualified representative.
Proponent’s Proposal:
Resolved: That the shareholders of 3M Company (“Company”)
request that the Board of Director’s Executive Compensation Committee establish
a pay-for-superior-performance standard in the Company’s executive compensation
plan for senior executives (“Plan”), by incorporating the following principles
into the Plan:
1.               The
annual incentive or bonus component of the Plan should utilize defined
financial performance criteria benchmarked against a disclosed peer group of
companies, and provide that an annual bonus should be awarded only when the
Company’s performance exceeds its peers’ median or mean performance on the
selected financial criteria;
2.               The
long-term compensation component of the Plan should utilize defined financial
and/or stock price performance criteria benchmarked against a disclosed peer
group of companies. Options, restricted shares, or other equity or non-equity
compensation used in the Plan should be structured so that compensation is
received only when the Company’s performance exceeds its peers’ median or mean
performance on the selected financial and stock price performance criteria; and
3.               Plan
disclosure should be sufficient to allow shareholders to determine and monitor
the pay and performance correlation established in the Plan.
Supporting Statement:
We feel it is
imperative that compensation plans for senior executives be designed and
implemented to promote long-term corporate value. A critical design feature of
a well-conceived executive compensation plan is a close correlation between the
level of pay and the level of corporate performance relative to industry peers.
We believe the failure to tie executive compensation to superior corporate
performance; that is, performance exceeding peer group performance, has fueled
the escalation of executive compensation and detracted from the goal of
enhancing long-term corporate value.
28 


We believe that common
compensation practices have contributed to excessive executive compensation.
Compensation committees typically target senior executive total compensation at
the median level of a selected peer group, then they design any annual and
long-term incentive plan performance criteria and benchmarks to deliver a
significant portion of the total compensation target regardless of the company’s
performance relative to its peers. High total compensation targets combined
with less than rigorous performance benchmarks yield a pattern of
superior-pay-for-average-performance. The problem is exacerbated when companies
include annual bonus payments among earnings used to calculate supplemental
executive retirement plan (SERP) benefit levels, guaranteeing excessive levels
of lifetime income through inflated pension payments.
We believe the Company’s Plan fails to promote the
pay-for-superior-performance principle. Our Proposal offers a straightforward
solution: The Compensation Committee should establish and disclose financial
and stock price performance criteria and set peer group-related performance
benchmarks that permit awards or payouts in its annual and long-term incentive
compensation plans only when the Company’s performance exceeds the median of
its peer group. A senior executive compensation plan based on sound
pay-for-superior-performance principles will help moderate excessive executive
compensation and create competitive compensation incentives that will focus
senior executives on building sustainable long-term corporate value.
Board’s Statement
Opposing the Proposal
After careful consideration, and for the reasons set
forth below, the Board believes that the proposal to require the Compensation
Committee (the “Committee”) to establish a pay-for-superior-performance
standard by using the performance of peer companies in addition to 3M’s
performance to determine the amount of payments under 3M’s performance-based
compensation plans for senior executives is not in the best interests of 3M or
its stockholders for the following reasons:
1.               3M’s compensation
program for its executives does not provide “excessive executive compensation”
as implied by this proposal. As described in the Compensation Discussion and
Analysis, the Compensation Committee relies on frequent and multiple surveys of
the executive compensation practices of a premier group of comparator companies
to ensure that the compensation delivered to 3M’s executives remains
competitive with and in the appropriate relationship to such compensation at
these comparator companies. When these surveys reveal that the compensation
paid to executives at these comparator companies declines, as it recently did
with respect to long-term incentive compensation, the long-term incentive
compensation provided by 3M to its executives declines as well.
2.               Total compensation
must be competitive to attract the best talent to 3M; motivate employees to
perform at their highest levels; reward outstanding achievement; and retain
those individuals with the leadership abilities and skills necessary for
building long-term stockholder value. Senior executives are effectively
motivated when their performance-based compensation is directly tied to 3M’s
performance and not to the performance of “peer companies” over which 3M’s
senior executives have no control. Compensation plans that would pay nothing
for outstanding performance that merely matched the performance of 3M’s peer
companies would not accomplish these purposes. Linking 3M’s executive
compensation to the Company’s relative performance as compared to peer
companies may have unintended and undesirable consequences due to the varying
and unforeseeable circumstances that may impact such other companies.
3.               3M
already believes strongly in, and has a long history of, linking executive
compensation to Company performance. The Board believes that 3M’s current
performance-based compensation programs work well and have been a strong
contributing factor to the Company’s success over the years, providing real
value to its stockholders. The Board 
29 


believes that it is in
the best interests of stockholders to give the Committee the flexibility and
discretion to use performance-based compensation and equity incentive tools as
appropriate based on the circumstances and information available at the time.
For this reason and the other reasons stated above, the Board believes that the
adoption of the stockholder proposal is unnecessary and would be detrimental to
the long-term interests of the Company’s stockholders.
Recommendation of the
Board
The Board of Directors recommends a vote “AGAINST”
this proposal for the reasons discussed above. Proxies solicited by the Board
of Directors will be voted “AGAINST” this proposal unless a stockholder
indicates otherwise in voting the proxy.
COMMON STOCK OWNERSHIP
OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
The following table sets forth information concerning
beneficial ownership of the Company’s common stock as of February 28,
2007, for: (a) each director and the nominees for director; (b) Named
Executive Officers set forth in the Summary Compensation Table; and (c) the
directors and executive officers as a group. Unless otherwise indicated, each
person has sole investment and voting power (or shares such powers with his or
her spouse) with respect to the shares set forth in the following table.
The number of shares
beneficially owned by each director or executive officer is determined under
the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the information
is not necessarily indicative of beneficial ownership for any other purpose.
Under such rules, beneficial ownership includes any shares as to which the
individual has the sole or shared voting power or investment power and also any
shares that the individual has the right to acquire as of April 29, 2007
(60 days after February 28, 2007), through the exercise of any stock
option or other right. Options exercisable within 60 days after February 28,
2007, are shown separately.
30 


Beneficial Ownership
Table




Name and Principal Position


 


 


 


Common Stock
  Beneficially
  Owned (1)


 


Options
  Exercisable (2)


 


Shares Held as
  Deferred Stock (3)


 


Total


 




Linda G. Alvarado, Director


 


 


6,214


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


5,319


 


 


11,533


 




Vance D. Coffman, Director


 


 


2,663


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


8,471


 


 


11,134


 




Michael L. Eskew, Director


 


 


0


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


8,942


 


 


8,942


 




W. James Farrell, Director


 


 


0


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


454


 


 


454


 




Herbert L. Henkel, New Nominee


 


 


0


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


0


 


 


0


 




Edward M. Liddy, Director


 


 


0


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


15,809


 


 


15,809


 




Robert S. Morrison, Director


 


 


4,506


 


 


 


30,567


 


 


 


7,289


 


 


42,362


 




Aulana L. Peters, Director


 


 


2,345


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


34,287


 


 


36,632


 




Rozanne L. Ridgway, Director


 


 


2,576


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


46,446


 


 


49,022


 




Kevin W. Sharer, Director


 


 


878


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


10,548


 


 


11,426


 




George W. Buckley, Director,


 


 


194,538


(4)


 


 


50,000


 


 


 


0


 


 


244,538


 




Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive
  Officer


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Patrick D. Campbell,


 


 


21,718


 


 


 


219,346


 


 


 


0


 


 


241,064


 




Chief Financial Officer


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Moe S. Nozari,


 


 


97,215


 


 


 


328,767


 


 


 


0


 


 


425,482


 




Executive Vice President


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Frederick J. Palensky,


 


 


40,809


 


 


 


186,398


 


 


 


0


 


 


227,207


 




Executive Vice President


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Richard F. Ziegler,


 


 


16,297


(5)


 


 


107,531


 


 


 


0


 


 


123,828


 




Senior Vice President


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




All Directors and
  Executive Officers as a Group (26 persons) (6)


 


 


603,318


 


 


 


2,106,057


 


 


 


137,565


 


 


2,846,940


 




 

FOOTNOTES TO BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP TABLE
(1)  “Common
Stock Beneficially Owned” includes (a) stock held in joint tenancy, (b) stock
owned as tenants in common, (c) stock owned or held by spouse or other
members of the nominee’s household, and (d) stock in which the nominee
either has or shares voting and/or investment power, even though the nominee
disclaims any beneficial interest in such stock. Options exercisable within 60
days after February 28, 2007, are shown separately.
(2)  Option
prices for these shares range from $43.3500 to $87.75 per share.
(3)  “Shares
Held as Deferred Stock” by nonemployee directors represent the number of shares
of the Company’s common stock, as of February 28, 2007, which the
directors will receive upon termination of membership on the Board of Directors
for any reason. These shares result from the voluntary election by the
nonemployee directors to defer the payment of directors’ fees. No shares of
common stock have as yet been issued, and the directors have neither voting nor
investment powers in these shares of deferred stock.
31 


(4)  Ownership
includes restricted stock units that generally vest over a five-year period if
the executive remains continuously employed by the Company and are subject to
forfeiture under certain circumstances.
(5)  Ownership
includes restricted shares that generally vest in increments of one-third over
a seven-year period if the executive remains continuously employed by the
Company and are subject to forfeiture under certain circumstances.
(6)  All directors and executive officers
as a group owned beneficially less than one percent of the outstanding common
stock of the Company.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF
MORE THAN 5 PERCENT STOCKHOLDERS
The following table sets forth information regarding
beneficial ownership of more than 5 percent of the outstanding 3M stock as of February 28,
2007.




Name/Address


 


 


 


Shares
  Beneficially Owned


 


Percent of
  Stock
  Outstanding


 




State Street Bank and
  Trust


 


 


55,377,278


 


 


 


7.5


 


 




Company (“State
  Street”) (1)
  225 Franklin Street
  Boston, MA 02110


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 
(1)  State Street holds 7.5
percent of our outstanding common stock as trustee for certain 3M savings
plans, including the Company’s Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock
Ownership Plan, a 401(k) retirement savings plan. Under the terms of the
plans, State Street is required to vote shares allocated to the accounts of the
participants in accordance with instructions received from such participants.
Information is based on a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC on February 12,
2007. State Street disclaims beneficial ownership of all of the shares listed
above.
SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL
OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE
Section 16(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires our directors and executive officers to
file with the Securities Exchange Commission reports regarding their ownership
and changes in ownership of our stock. 3M believes that during 2006, its
directors and executive officers complied with all
Section 16(a) filing requirements. In making this statement, 3M has
relied upon examination of the copies of Forms 3, 4, and 5 and the written
representations of its directors and executive officers.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
Compensation Discussion
and Analysis
Overview
3M pays its executives compensation to recognize their
contributions to the success of its business and provide incentives for them to
deliver performance that meets the growth and other objectives of the Company.
All elements of this compensation are determined by the Compensation Committee of
the Board of Directors (the “Committee”), which is composed solely of
independent nonemployee directors. However, the Committee’s decisions
concerning the compensation of 3M’s Chief Executive Officer are subject to
ratification by the independent directors of the Board of Directors.
32




As of December 31, 2006, the members of the
Committee were Vance D. Coffman, Robert S. Morrison, Aulana L. Peters, Rozanne
L. Ridgway, and Kevin W. Sharer. The Committee operates pursuant to a Charter
attached to this proxy statement as Appendix D. During 2006, the Committee was
assisted by its independent compensation consultant, George B. Paulin of
Frederic W. Cook & Co., Inc. In addition to participating in the
meetings of the Committee, Mr. Paulin provided significant assistance and
advice during an extensive review of the Company’s short-term and long-term
incentive compensation plans. Frederic W. Cook & Co., Inc., along
with two other compensation consulting firms, provides executive compensation
survey data relied upon by the Committee in establishing competitive
compensation for 3M’s executives.
3M’s executive officers
(especially Mr. Buckley) assist the Committee with the process of
determining the compensation of the Company’s executives.
Objectives of 3M’s
compensation program
3M believes that the
compensation of its executives should be closely tied to the performance and
growth of the Company, so that their interests are aligned with the interests
of 3M stockholders. Consistent with this philosophy, the following core
principles provide a framework for the Company’s executive compensation
program:
·       Total
compensation must be competitive to attract the best talent to 3M, motivate
executives to perform at their highest levels, reward outstanding achievement,
and retain those individuals with the leadership abilities and skills necessary
for building long-term stockholder value;
·       The
portion of an executive’s total compensation that varies with performance and
is therefore at risk should increase with the level of an individual’s
responsibility;
·       The
goals for any variable pay plans must be consistent with the Company’s business
objectives and increasing stockholder value; and
·       Executives
are most effectively motivated to build long-term stockholder value when a
significant portion of their personal net worth is invested in 3M stock.
In order to accomplish the
objective of providing competitive total compensation, 3M annually surveys the
executive compensation practices of a premier group of comparator companies. The
survey data is obtained from three independent consultants (Hewitt Associates,
Frederic W. Cook & Co., Inc., and Towers Perrin). With this
information, the Committee aims to provide the Company’s executives with
short-term cash compensation at or very close to the median of this comparator
group and long-term incentive compensation at the average of the 50th and 75th percentiles of
this comparator group. The comparator group consists of the companies in the
Dow Jones Industrial Average, modified to exclude financial services companies,
and other companies with annual revenue exceeding $10 billion that participate
in the consultants’ executive compensation surveys. Survey data is adjusted to
recognize the different sizes of the comparator companies (based on annual
revenues) as compared to the size of 3M.
What the compensation
program is designed to reward
3M’s executive compensation
program is designed to link individual rewards to the profitability and growth
of the Company’s business. 3M believes that an individual’s pay should reflect
his or her sustained performance and contributions to the Company. The program
is also designed to reward increasing stockholder value through a combination
of equity and cash based long-term incentives. All of the incentive
compensation elements of the program are designed to incent performance that
meets or exceeds the growth and profitability objectives of the Company.
33 


Elements of the
compensation program
During 2006, the compensation program for 3M’s
executives consisted of the following elements: base salary, short-term cash
incentive in the form of profit sharing, long-term cash incentive in the form
of a Performance Unit Plan, and long-term equity incentive in the form of stock
options (and in appropriate circumstances, restricted stock or restricted stock
units). These executives also participated in various benefit plans made
available to most of 3M’s U.S. employees, were eligible to participate in
several deferred compensation plans, and received other benefits and
perquisites. The entire program applied to approximately 110 executives during
2006, including all five of the individuals named in the Summary Compensation
Table (George W. Buckley, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive
Officer; Patrick D. Campbell, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer;
Moe S. Nozari, Executive Vice President, Consumer and Office Business;
Frederick J. Palensky, Executive Vice President, Research and Development and
Chief Technology Officer; and Richard F. Ziegler, Senior Vice President, Legal
Affairs and General Counsel).
Base salary
3M pays each of its executives
a base salary in cash on a monthly basis. The amount of this base salary is
reviewed annually, and does not necessarily vary with the performance of the
Company.
Short-term incentive
During 2006, 3M provided short-term incentive
compensation to its executives and many other global employees through profit
sharing plans. Profit sharing is performance-based compensation based on the
quarterly economic profit of the Company and its business units. Economic
profit is defined as quarterly net operating income minus a charge for
operating capital used by the business. The economic profit measurement is
directly related to the creation of stockholder value since it emphasizes the
effective use of capital and solid profitable growth. Compensation paid under
the profit sharing plans fluctuates based on the performance of the Company and
its business units. All profit sharing payments are made in cash.
Following a comprehensive review of 3M’s short-term
and long-term incentive compensation plans, the Committee has decided to
replace the current profit sharing plans with an annual incentive plan. The new
annual incentive plan will be based on three performance metrics: organic
growth, operating income, and economic profit. This change will be effective in
2007 for the Company’s executives and in 2008 for the remaining employees
currently participating in the profit sharing plans. Implementation of the new
plan is being phased in over a two-year period due to the extensive revisions
in 3M’s financial and human resource information systems necessary to
administer the plan.
Long-term incentives
3M provides long-term incentive compensation to its
executives through its Performance Unit Plan and its Management Stock Ownership
Program. Both plans deliver performance-based compensation to these executives,
although the basis for measuring this performance varies by plan.
The Performance Unit Plan provides variable
compensation to 3M’s executives based on the Company’s long-term performance. The
Committee makes annual awards of performance units under the Plan to these
executives. The amount payable with respect to each performance unit granted is
determined by and is contingent upon attainment of the performance criteria
selected each year by the Committee over the applicable three-year performance
period. Although the Plan authorizes the payment of performance units in either
cash or shares of 3M common stock, the Company has consistently made these
payments in the form of cash.
34 


The Management Stock Ownership Program provides
compensation to 3M’s executives based on the value of and increases in the
value of the Company’s common stock. The Program authorizes the Committee to
grant stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock
appreciation rights, and other stock awards to management employees of the
Company. The Committee makes annual grants of stock options under the Program
to 3M’s executives and other management employees. These options have an
exercise price equal to the market price of the Company’s common stock on the
grant date, and generally expire ten years after the grant date. Historically,
the Committee has made grants of restricted stock and restricted stock units
under the Program only to selected executives and other management employees in
appropriate circumstances. These circumstances have included the hiring of new
executives as well as the need to retain current executives. These shares of
restricted stock and restricted stock units vest over periods ranging from one
to five years after the grant date, which encourage the executives to remain
employed by the Company until the shares or units have vested.
In addition to annual stock option grants, executives
who exercise nonqualified stock options granted before 2005 may qualify for the
receipt of new progressive stock options (also known as “reloads”). When an
executive exercises a nonqualified option granted before 2005 and pays the
exercise price of such option using shares of 3M common stock already owned by
the executive (a method of exercise known as a “stock swap”), the executive is
automatically granted a new progressive stock option for the number of shares
used to pay the exercise price as well as the number of shares withheld to pay
withholding taxes. The new progressive stock option carries an exercise price
equal to the fair market value of a share of 3M common stock on the date of exercise
of the pre-2005 nonqualified stock option, and may only be exercised
through the original expiration date of such pre-2005 nonqualified stock
option. 3M offered progressive stock options with respect to nonqualified stock
options granted before 2005 to encourage executives to acquire and accumulate
actual shares of 3M common stock by exercising their stock options early rather
than holding such options until the end of their term and then exercising them
for cash. Stock options granted since 2004 have not been eligible for the grant
of new progressive stock options upon their exercise.
New progressive stock option
grants are reflected in the Summary Compensation Table and the Grants of
Plan-Based Awards Table for those Named Executive Officers who received them
during 2006. The values for such grants reflected in these Tables were
determined in accordance with FAS 123(R). However, the Committee did not
consider these new progressive stock option grants to represent incremental
compensation value when determining an individual’s annual stock option grant
for 2006, because the progressive stock options are merely extensions of the
exercised pre-2005 nonqualified stock options.
Benefits and
perquisites
3M’s executives participate in most of the same health
care, disability, life insurance, pension, and 401(k) benefit plans made
available generally to the Company’s U.S. employees. In addition, these
executives are eligible to participate in several deferred compensation
programs that allow them to voluntarily defer the receipt of cash compensation
otherwise payable by the Company. These deferred compensation programs enable
participating executives to earn the same returns paid on the investment funds
offered to participants in the Company’s 401(k) plan or, at the executive’s
election, a fixed rate of return based on corporate bond yields. Payment of
this deferred compensation and the earnings thereon generally occurs following
the end of the executives’ employment with the Company. Executives also receive
perquisites described in more detail in footnote 5 to the Summary
Compensation Table. Three executives (Mr. Buckley, Mr. Campbell, and Mr. Ziegler)
earn supplemental retirement benefits pursuant to their employment agreements
with the Company, which were negotiated at the time they agreed to leave their
previous employers and join 3M. These supplemental benefits are designed to
replace a portion of the pension benefits they failed to earn 
35 


under the
plans of their previous employers because they ended their employment before
becoming eligible to retire.
Why 3M chooses to pay
each element
3M pays base salary as the
core of its executives’ cash compensation, which is necessary to provide
competitive total compensation. 3M pays additional cash compensation through a
short-term incentive in order to recognize and reward improving business
performance. 3M provides long-term incentive compensation through awards under
its Performance Unit Plan in order to increase its executives’ focus on and
recognize their leadership role in achieving the performance goals selected by
the Committee, which are regarded as critical for creating sustainable stockholder
value over time. 3M also provides long-term incentive compensation through
stock options and restricted stock grants under the Management Stock Ownership
Program to better align the interests of its executives with the Company’s stockholders,
encourage 3M stock ownership and reward executives for appreciation in 3M’s
stock price.
How 3M determines the
amount for each element
All amounts are determined by
the Committee in recognition of the Company’s annual surveys of the compensation
practices of its comparator companies (with the exception of the compensation
of Mr. Buckley, which was determined through the negotiation of his
employment agreement when he agreed to join the Company as 3M’s Chief Executive
Officer in December 2005). With this information, the Committee aims to
provide short-term cash compensation that is at or very close to the median of
this comparator group and long-term incentive compensation at the average of
the 50th and 75th percentiles of
this comparator group. By targeting long-term incentive compensation at the
average of the 50th and 75th percentiles of
this comparator group, 3M is able to reward good performance with long-term
awards closer to the 50th percentile and outstanding performance with
long-term awards closer to the 75th percentile.
Base salary
Changes in the base salaries
of executives are considered annually by the Committee. Any adjustments are
made in recognition of changing conditions in the external market along with
the individual’s performance during the preceding annual period. Excluding Mr. Buckley
(who did not receive an increase during 2006), the Committee increased the base
salaries for the executives named in the Summary Compensation Table by an
average of 8.1 percent during 2006.
Short-term incentive
During 2006, the Committee chose to deliver short-term
incentive compensation in the form of quarterly profit sharing. Profit sharing
payouts were based on a single metric, economic profit, although economic
profit was measured at different levels of the Company. All executives received
at least a portion of their profit sharing based on the quarterly economic
profit of the Company as a whole, while some executives received a portion of
their profit sharing based on the quarterly economic profit of their respective
business units. Mr. Buckley’s target annual profit sharing was established
in his employment agreement at $2,600,000, or 162 percent of his annual base
salary, and has not subsequently been changed. The target annual planned profit
sharing for the other executives named in the Summary Compensation Table was
established at 67 percent of their annual base salaries.
Total economic profit of the
Company for 2006 amounted to $1.998 billion, an increase of 2 percent over
3M’s total economic profit for 2005. As a result, the profit sharing payments
made to those executives who received profit sharing based solely on the
results of the Company as a whole 
36 


throughout
the entire year were 102 percent of their target annual planned profit sharing
for the year. For example, Mr. Buckley received profit sharing payments of
$2,654,408 for 2006, 2 percent above his target annual planned profit sharing
of $2,600,000.
Long-term incentives
During 2006, the Committee chose to deliver two-thirds
of the value of the long-term incentive compensation provided to 3M’s
executives (other than Mr. Buckley, whose amounts were determined through
the negotiation of his employment agreement) in the form of stock options and
the remaining one-third in the form of awards under the Performance Unit Plan. Starting
in 2007, the Committee intends to change this mix so that one-half of the value
of these executives’ long-term incentive compensation is delivered through
stock options and the other one-half is delivered through awards under the
Performance Unit Plan. This change is being made to better balance rewards for
long-term financial performance with the rewards for stock price appreciation.
The Committee takes into
account and recognizes individual performance in determining the size of annual
stock option grants under the Management Stock Ownership Program. Once the
desired value of the annual grant is determined for each executive, the value
is converted into a number of option shares by dividing this amount by a Black-Scholes
value that is the average of the Black-Scholes values for 3M stock options as
provided by three independent consultants (Hewitt Associates, Frederic W.
Cook & Co., Inc., and Towers Perrin). Annual stock option grants
occur on the date of the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in May, and the
exercise price for these options is set at the fair market value of a share of
3M stock on that date (as required by the provisions of the Management Stock
Ownership Program last approved by 3M’s stockholders in 2005). As provided in
the plan document for the Management Stock Ownership Program, the fair market
value of a share of 3M stock is computed as the average of the high and low
prices at which 3M common stock traded on the New York Stock Exchange, rounded
up to the nearest $0.05. Annual stock options granted under this Program expire
ten years after the grant date, and become exercisable in equal installments on
the first three anniversaries of the grant date.
During 2006, the Committee approved a special grant of
7,500 shares of restricted stock to Dr. Nozari for retention purposes. These
shares of restricted stock will vest on June 12, 2009 (or upon Dr. Nozari’s
retirement from the Company, with the consent of the Nominating and Governance
Committee of the Board of Directors, if earlier), if he remains employed by the
Company until that date.
As part of their approval of the Performance Unit
Plan, 3M’s stockholders authorized the Committee to select the performance
criteria for each year’s units awarded under the Plan from a set of preapproved
measures. These preapproved measures include return on capital employed, sales
growth, return on equity, total shareholder return, and economic profit or
improvement in economic profit. The performance criteria selected by the
Committee for performance units granted during 2006 were designed to focus
management attention on two key factors that create stockholder value: Economic
Profit Growth and Sales Growth.
Economic Profit Growth is the average annual
percentage amount by which the economic profit of the Company grows over the
three-year measurement period (2006 through 2008 for the performance units
granted during 2006). Sales Growth is the average annual percentage amount
by which the Company’s worldwide organic sales growth (sales growth adjusted
for acquisitions, inflation, and currency effects) exceeds worldwide real sales
growth as reflected in the Industrial Production Index, as published by the
Federal Reserve, during the three-year measurement period.
The amount payable for each performance unit granted
in 2006 is linked to the performance criteria of Economic Profit Growth and
Sales Growth, with approximately 60 percent of this amount determined by
Economic Profit Growth and the remaining 40 percent determined by Sales Growth.

37 


The amount payable may be
anywhere from $0 to $360 per unit, depending on the performance of the Company
during the three-year performance period ending on December 31, 2008.
The
Committee approved the following formula for determining the amount payable for
these performance units:



 Economic Profit Growth


 


 


Payout/Unit


 


 


Sales Growth
  Exceeding IPI


 


 


Payout/Unit


 




 20% or higher


 


 


 


$


216


 


 


 


 


5%


 


 


 


 


$


144


 


 




 15%


 


 


 


$


144


 


 


 


 


3%


 


 


 


 


$


96


 


 




 10%


 


 


 


$


72


 


 


 


 


1%


 


 


 


 


$


48


 


 




 5%


 


 


 


$


12


 


 


 


 


0%


 


 


 


 


$


8


 


 




 Below 5%


 


 


 


$


0


 


 


 


 


Below 0%


 


 


 


 


$


0


 


 



 
The above formula is
not a prediction of how 3M will perform during the years 2006 through 2008. The
sole purpose of this formula, which was approved by the Committee in February 2006,
is to establish a method for determining the payment of long-term incentive
compensation under the Performance Unit Plan. 3M is not providing any guidance,
nor updating any prior guidance, of its future performance with the disclosure
of this formula, and you are cautioned not to rely on this formula as a
prediction of 3M’s future performance.
Benefits and
perquisites
3M provides benefits to its
executives and its other employees for the purposes of delivering competitive
total compensation and protecting the health and welfare of these employees and
their families. Perquisites are provided for a variety of reasons, including
the delivery of competitive total compensation and protecting the health and
safety of key employees.
How each element and the decisions regarding that
element fit into the Company’s overall compensation objectives, and affect
decisions regarding other elements
All elements of 3M’s
compensation program, including base salary, short-term incentive, long-term
incentives, benefits, and perquisites, are designed to provide overall value at
or above the median of 3M’s comparator group of premier companies. By doing so,
3M is able to attract and retain the talent necessary to lead and grow the Company.
In addition, the incentive compensation elements are designed to recognize the
uniqueness and diversity of 3M’s businesses while supporting the Company’s
overall business objectives and focus on increasing stockholder value.
Stock ownership guidelines
The Company’s stock ownership
guidelines apply to all Section 16 Reporting Officers. They are designed
to increase an executive’s equity stake in 3M and more closely align his or her
interests with those of 3M’s stockholders. The guidelines provide that the CEO
should attain beneficial ownership of 3M stock equal to five times his or her
annual base salary at the time of appointment, Executive and Senior Vice
Presidents should attain beneficial ownership of 3M stock equal to three times
their annual base salary at the time of appointment, and Vice Presidents should
attain beneficial ownership of 3M stock equal to two times their annual base
salary at the time of appointment. While the stock ownership guidelines provide
that executives should attain this beneficial ownership of 3M stock within five
years of their appointment to these positions, most of our executives have
already attained or exceeded these ownership levels. During 2006, the Committee
decided that beginning in 2007, future payments of performance units awarded
under the Performance Unit Plan will be made in shares of 3M stock instead of
cash to the extent an executive has not met these stock ownership guidelines.
38 


Policy on reimbursement
of incentive payments (“Clawback”)
The Company’s Board of
Directors has adopted a policy requiring the reimbursement of excess payments
made to an executive in the event that 3M is required to make a material
restatement of its financial statements and that executive’s intentional
misconduct caused the need for the restatement. This policy applies to the Section 16
officers of the Company. The policy has been filed electronically with the
Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K as Exhibit 10.17.
Limit on tax-deductible
compensation
Section 162(m) of the
Internal Revenue Code prohibits 3M from deducting compensation paid in any year
to an executive named in the Summary Compensation Table in excess of $1
million, but does not subject performance-based compensation to this limit. The
Committee continues to emphasize performance-based compensation for executives
and thus minimize the effect of Section 162(m). However, the Committee
believes that its primary responsibility is to provide a compensation program
that attracts, retains, and rewards the executive talent necessary for the
Company’s success. Consequently, in any year the Committee may authorize
nonperformance-based compensation in excess of $1 million. The Committee
recognizes that the loss of the tax deduction may be unavoidable under these
circumstances.
Severance or change in
control arrangements
With the exception of three Named Executive Officers
who have entered into employment agreements with the Company, 3M does not have
severance plans or arrangements with any of its executives. Nor does 3M have
arrangements providing for payments or other compensation in the event of a
change in control of the Company, other than the payment, exercise, or delivery
of long-term incentive compensation awards issued prior to a change in control.
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE
REPORT
In accordance with the SEC’s disclosure requirements
for executive compensation, the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors of 3M Company (the “Committee”) has reviewed and discussed with 3M
Management the Compensation Discussion and Analysis. Based on this review and
these discussions with 3M Management, the Committee recommended to the Board of
Directors that this Compensation Discussion and Analysis be included in the
2007 proxy statement of 3M Company.
Submitted by the Compensation Committee
Vance D. Coffman, Chair
Robert S. Morrison
Aulana L. Peters
Rozanne L. Ridgway
Kevin W.
Sharer
39 


Summary Compensation
Table
The
following table shows the compensation earned or received during 2006 by each
of 3M’s Named Executive Officers (as determined pursuant to the SEC’s
disclosure requirements for executive compensation in Item 402 of Regulation
S-K).



Summary Compensation Table


 




Name and
  Principal Position


 


Year


 


Salary
  ($)


 


Bonus
  ($)


 


Stock
  Awards
  ($)(1)


 


Option
  Awards
  ($)(2)


 


Non-Equity
  Incentive Plan
  Compensation
  ($)(3)


 


Change in
  Pension Value
  and
  Nonqualified
  Deferred
  Compensation
  Earnings (4)


 


All Other
  Compensation
  (5)


 


Total ($)


 




George W. Buckley
  Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer


 


2006


 


1,600,000


 


4,117,500


(6)


4,670,100


 


2,153,646


 


 


3,330,740


 


 


 


54,869


 


 


 


651,246


 


 


$


16,578,101


 




Patrick D. Campbell Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


 


2006


 


675,878


 


 


 


 


 


1,223,934


 


 


751,406


 


 


 


492,731


 


 


 


94,517


 


 


$


3,238,466


 




Moe. S. Nozari Executive Vice President, Consumer and Office Business


 


2006


 


616,964


 


 


 


65,455


 


2,672,504


 


 


713,626


 


 


 


208,751


 


 


 


51,741


 


 


$


4,329,041


 




Frederick J. Palensky Executive Vice President, Research and Development
  and Chief Technology Officer


 


2006


 


417,259


 


 


 


 


 


1,516,235


 


 


618,060


 


 


 


336,802


 


 


 


42,603


 


 


$


2,930,959


 




Richard F. Ziegler
  Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel


 


2006


 


714,595


 


 


 


81,185


 


613,711


 


 


778,328


 


 


 


904


 


 


 


117,853


 


 


$


2,306,576


 




FOOTNOTES TO SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE
(1)  The amounts in the Stock Awards column reflect the dollar amounts
recognized for financial statement reporting purposes for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2006, in accordance with FAS 123(R), (excluding the
impact of estimated forfeitures related to service-based vesting conditions), for
awards pursuant to the Management Stock Ownership Program, and thus may include
amounts attributable to awards granted during and before 2006. Assumptions made
in the calculation of these amounts are included in Note 16 to the Company’s
audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006,
included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2007.
(2)  The amounts in the Option Awards column
reflect the dollar amounts recognized for financial statement reporting
purposes for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, in accordance with
FAS 123(R), (excluding the impact of estimated forfeitures related to
service-based vesting conditions), for awards pursuant to the Management Stock
Ownership Program, and thus may include amounts attributable to awards granted
during and before 2006. Assumptions made in the calculation of these amounts
are included in Note 16 to the Company’s audited financial statements for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, included in the Company’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on February 26, 2007.
40 


(3)  The amounts in the Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation column
reflect the sum of (i) profit sharing earned during 2006 under the Company’s
profit sharing plans, (ii) the value of awards made under the Performance
Unit Plan, which were earned during 2006 upon the completion of the respective
performance period (the three-year period ended December 31, 2006),
and (iii) only with respect to Dr. Palensky, earnings on a previous
award made under the Performance Unit Plan which had already been earned but
which was not paid to him until 2007.
(4)  The amounts in the Change in Pension Value and Nonqualified
Deferred Compensation Earnings column reflect the actuarial increase in the
present value of each individual’s pension benefits under all defined benefit
pension plans of the Company determined using the same interest rate and
mortality assumptions as those used for financial statement reporting purposes.
There were no above-market earnings on deferred compensation under the Company’s
nonqualified deferred compensation programs.
(5)  The amounts in the All Other Compensation
column reflect for each individual: (a) Company contributions made on
behalf of the individual under all of the Company’s qualified and nonqualified
defined contribution plans, (b) the dollar amount of premiums paid on
behalf of the individual under the whole life or universal life insurance
policies issued to them under the Executive Life Insurance Plan, (c)  tax
gross-ups on income imputed to the individual for travel by the individual’s
spouse on corporate aircraft to attend certain Company functions involving
spouse participation, and (d) amounts paid to provide the individual with
financial planning services. Mr. Campbell’s amount includes $18,174 of
Company contributions under its defined contribution plans and $62,151 of
premiums paid under such life insurance policies. Dr. Nozari’s amount
includes $36,906 of premiums paid under such life insurance policies. Dr. Palensky’s
amount includes $20,462 of premiums paid under such life insurance policies.
Mr. Ziegler’s amount includes $18,791 of Company contributions under its
defined contribution plans and $84,654 of premiums paid under such life
insurance policies. Mr. Buckley’s amount includes $87,860 of premiums paid
under such life insurance policies, in addition to $123,422 for the
reimbursement of legal fees pursuant to his employment agreement and the
Company’s relocation program, $44,966 for vehicle rentals and the value
attributable to personal use of Company-provided automobiles and ground
transportation, $224,460 for the incremental cost to the Company of his
personal use of corporate aircraft (much of which occurred during the first
part of 2006 when he commuted between Minnesota and his home in Illinois until
his family completed its move to Minnesota), and $122,178 in tax gross-ups paid
on his behalf pursuant to his employment agreement and the Company’s relocation
program. In addition, the amount reported in the All Other Compensation column
for Mr. Buckley reflects the following additional types of personal
benefits: payment of housing and other living expenses in Minnesota before
he purchased a home, security provided at his personal residence, and personal
use of the Company’s conference center. The incremental cost to the Company of
Mr. Buckley’s personal use of corporate aircraft was calculated by
combining the variable operating costs of such travel, including the cost of
fuel, landing fees, on-board catering and crew travel expenses.
(6)  The amount in the Bonus column for Mr. Buckley reflects a cash
payment made to him (pursuant to his employment agreement) to replace the
annual bonus and long-term incentive compensation he forfeited as a result of
leaving his previous employer.
41








Grants of Plan-Based Awards


 

 



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


All


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


Other


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


Stock


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


Awards:


 


Exercise


 


Closing


 


Grant


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


Estimated Future Payouts


 


Estimated Future Payouts


 


Number


 


or Base


 


Market


 


Date Fair


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


Under Non-Equity


 


Under Equity


 


of Shares


 


Price of


 


Price on


 


Value of


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


Incentive Plan Awards (2)


 


Incentive Plan Awards (3)


 


of Stock


 


Option


 


Date of


 


Stock and


 




 


 


Grant


 


Units


 


Threshold


 


Target


 


Maximum


 


Threshold


 


Target


 


Maximum


 


or Units


 


Awards


 


Grant


 


Option


 




 


Name


 


 


Date


 


(#)(1)


 


($)


 


($)


 


($)


 


(#)


 


(#)


 


(#)


 


(#)


 


($/sh)(4)


 


($/sh)


 


Awards(5)


 




George W. 


 


n/a


 


16,667


 


 


$


0


 


 


$


2,000,040


 


$


6,000,120


 


 


 


286,807


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Buckley


 


05/09/06


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


87.35


 


 


 


$


87.58


 


 


$


5,687,383


 




 


 


03/12/06


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


318


(6)


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


23,000


 




 


 


06/12/06


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


288


(6)


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


23,146


 




 


 


09/12/06


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


323


(6)


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


23,278


 




 


 


12/12/06


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


297


(6)


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


23,427


 




Patrick D. 


 


n/a


 


6,200


 


 


$


0


 


 


$


744,000


 


$


2,232,000


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Campbell


 


05/09/06


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


73,000


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


87.35


 


 


 


$


87.58


 


 


$


1,447,590


 




Moe S.


 


n/a


 


4,400


 


 


$


0


 


 


$


528,000


 


$


1,584,000


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Nozari


 


05/09/06


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


52,000


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


87.35


 


 


 


$


87.58


 


 


$


1,031,160


 







 


05/08/06


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


30,318


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


87.75


 


 


 


$


88.13


 


 


$


410,809


 







 


05/08/06


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


13,065


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


87.75


 


 


 


$


88.13


 


 


$


177,031


 







 


05/08/06


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


2,270


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


87.75


 


 


 


$


88.13


 


 


$


30,759


 







 


05/08/06


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


52,795


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


87.75


 


 


 


$


88.13


 


 


$


715,372


 







 


08/14/06


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


7,500 


(7)


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


540,000


 




Frederick J.


 


n/a


 


4,400


 


 


$


0


 


 


$


528,000


 


$


1,584,000


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Palensky


 


05/09/06


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


52,000


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


87.35


 


 


 


$


87.58


 


 


$


1,031,160


 




 


 


11/10/06


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


9,684


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


79.05


 


 


 


$


79.19


 


 


$


87,834


 




 


 


11/10/06


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


17,610


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


79.05


 


 


 


$


79.19


 


 


$


159,723


 




Richard F. 


 


n/a


 


4,000


 


 


$


0


 


 


$


480,000


 


$


1,440,000


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Ziegler


 


05/09/06


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


43,000


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


87.35


 


 


 


$


87.58


 


 


$


852,690


 


















































 
FOOTNOTES
TO GRANTS OF PLAN-BASED AWARDS TABLE
(1) The amounts in the Units column reflect the numbers of Performance
Unit Plan units granted to each individual during 2006.
(2) The amounts shown as the Estimated Future
Payouts Under Non-Equity Incentive Plan Awards reflect the minimum, target, and
maximum potential values of the performance units granted to each individual
during 2006 under the Performance Unit Plan. The actual values of these units
will be determined by the performance of the Company during the three-year
performance period of 2006, 2007, and 2008, as measured against two performance
criteria selected by the Compensation Committee. The first of these criteria,
Economic Profit Growth, requires that the average annual increase in the
Company’s Economic Profit (net operating income, excluding any special items,
minus a charge for the cost of capital) over the three-year performance
period be at least five percent in order for participants to receive any payout
under this portion of the units. The second of these criteria, Sales Growth,
requires that the average annual increase in the Company’s organic sales (total
sales adjusted for acquisitions, inflation, and currency effects) over the three-year
performance period at least equal the rate of worldwide real sales growth as
reflected in the Industrial Production Index published by the Federal Reserve
in order for participants to receive any payout under this portion of the units.
For more information on the formula for determining the value of these units
and on the provisions of the Performance Unit Plan in general, refer to the
Compensation Discussion and Analysis.
(3) The amounts shown as the Estimated Future
Payouts Under Equity Incentive Plan Awards reflect the numbers of nonqualified
stock options granted to each individual during 2006 under the Management Stock
Ownership Program. The options granted on May 9, 2006 were part of the
Company’s annual grant of stock options to the more than 10,000 employees
participating in the Program, while the options granted on the other dates
shown in this table reflect progressive stock options (commonly referred to as
reloads) issued upon the exercise of options granted under 
42 


pre-2005 versions of the
Management Stock Ownership Program which provided for the receipt of such
reloads when the optionee makes payment of the exercise price in shares of the
Company’s common stock.
(4) The exercise price for all stock options
granted under the Program is set at the fair market value of a share of 3M
common stock on the option grant date (as required by the provisions of the
Management Stock Ownership Program last approved by 3M’s stockholders in 2005).
As provided in the plan document for the Management Stock Ownership Program,
the fair market value of a share of 3M common stock is computed as the average
of the high and low prices at which 3M common stock traded on the New York
Stock Exchange on the applicable date (rounded up to the nearest $0.05).
(5) The amounts in the Grant Date Fair Value of Stock and Option Awards
column were determined in accordance with FAS 123(R). Assumptions made in the
calculation of these amounts are included in Note 16 to the Company’s audited
financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, included
in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2007.
(6) These amounts reflect additional grants of restricted stock units to
Mr. Buckley in lieu of dividend payments on a portion of his outstanding
restricted stock units, as required by his employment agreement.
(7) This amount reflects a special restricted stock grant to Dr. Nozari
described in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REGARDING THE EMPLOYMENT
AGREEMENTS OF THE NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
Some of the grants and compensation reflected in the
above tables are a direct result of the employment agreements that the Company
has entered into with three of the Named Executive Officers. The following
summary identifies the material terms of these agreements that impacted the
compensation or grants of these individuals during 2006.
George W. Buckley
3M has entered into an
employment agreement with George W. Buckley providing for his employment as
President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and for his election as
Chairman of the Board of Directors of 3M. The agreement became effective December 6,
2005, and has an initial term of three years. Beginning on December 6, 2006,
the agreement automatically extends itself so that the remaining term of the
agreement is always two years. However, the term will end on Mr. Buckley’s
65th birthday (February 23, 2012) unless the parties otherwise agree.
The
agreement requires that Mr. Buckley receive an annual base salary of
$1,600,000. This base salary will be reviewed at least annually and may be
increased by the Compensation Committee of the Board, but may not be decreased
without Mr. Buckley’s consent. The agreement also requires that Mr. Buckley
be eligible to participate in the Company’s Executive Profit Sharing Plan, with
a target annual bonus which is the greater of $2,600,000 and 150 percent of his
annual base salary. For 2006 only, the agreement provided that the amount of Mr. Buckley’s
profit sharing compensation could not be less than $2,600,000.
Pursuant to the agreement, the Company granted to Mr. Buckley
nonqualified options to purchase 250,000 shares of 3M common stock at the fair
market value of a share of 3M common stock on the effective date of such
agreement ($78.15). These options have a ten-year term, and become exercisable
in increments of 20 percent on each of the first five anniversaries of the
grant date assuming continued employment with the Company. These options become
vested and exercisable 
43 


in full upon Mr. Buckley’s death or termination due to
disability, upon a termination of his employment by the Company without Cause,
upon a termination of his employment by Mr. Buckley for Good Reason, or upon a
change of control of the Company.
Pursuant to the agreement, Mr. Buckley
was also granted as of the agreement’s effective date 50,000 restricted stock
units with respect to shares of 3M common stock. These restricted stock units
will vest in increments of 20 percent on each of the first five anniversaries
of the grant date assuming continued employment with the Company. Dividend
equivalents in the form of additional restricted stock units will be provided
during the vesting period. These restricted stock units become vested in full
upon Mr. Buckley’s death or termination due to disability, upon a
termination of his employment by the Company without Cause, upon a termination
of his employment by Mr. Buckley for Good Reason, or upon a change of
control of the Company.
The
agreement required that Mr. Buckley receive a 2006 grant of nonqualified
stock options having a Black-Scholes value of $6,000,000.
Pursuant to
the agreement, the Company granted to Mr. Buckley as of the agreement’s
effective date 16,667 performance units under 3M’s Performance Unit Plan with
respect to each of the performance periods beginning in 2004 and 2005. Upon the
completion of the performance period for the 2004 units (at the end of 2006), Mr. Buckley
became entitled to receive payment for one-third of the value of such units. Assuming
that he remains employed by the Company through the end of the performance
period for the 2005 units, Mr. Buckley will receive payment for two-thirds
of the value of the 2005 units in early 2008.
The agreement required that Mr. Buckley
receive a grant of 16,667 performance units under the Performance Unit Plan
with respect to the three-year performance period beginning in 2006.
In order to
replace the unvested restricted stock units that he forfeited as a result of leaving
his previous employer, the agreement required the Company to grant Mr. Buckley
(on the effective date of the agreement) 157,808 restricted stock units with
respect to shares of 3M common stock. 25,000 of these restricted stock units
vested on December 31, 2006, and the remaining 132,808 restricted stock
units will vest on December 6, 2010, assuming continued employment with
the Company. Dividend equivalents in the form of cash will be paid to Mr. Buckley
during the vesting period. These restricted stock units become vested in full
upon Mr. Buckley’s death or termination due to disability, upon a
termination of his employment by the Company without Cause, upon a termination
of his employment by Mr. Buckley for Good Reason, or upon a change of
control of the Company.
In order to replace the
annual bonus and long-term incentive compensation that he forfeited as a result
of leaving his previous employer, the agreement required the Company to pay Mr.
Buckley a cash bonus of $4,117,500 on or before March 15, 2006.
As amended, the
agreement requires the Company to pay Mr. Buckley’s reasonable expenses of
relocating his primary residence to the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, consistent
with the Company’s relocation policies applicable to other senior executives
(including the expenses of periodic travel between his residence in Illinois
and Minneapolis-St. Paul through June 30, 2007). If payment of these
relocation expenses results in taxable income to Mr. Buckley, the
agreement requires the Company to make additional payments to Mr. Buckley
(tax gross-ups) with which he may pay the taxes on such income. While he
remains employed by the Company, the agreement gives Mr. Buckley the right
to have the Company purchase one of his residences in Illinois or Minnesota at
its then prevailing value (to be determined by an appraiser mutually agreeable
to both parties) if he is unable to complete the sale of such residence within
120 days after electing to exercise this right.
The agreement provides
that Mr. Buckley will be eligible for the same perquisites that the
Company makes available to its other senior executives. Both Mr. Buckley
and his family will be entitled to use the aircraft owned by the Company for
business and personal purposes. The Company 
44 


will provide Mr. Buckley
with an automobile and driver for travel in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, and
with an additional luxury automobile for which the Company will pay all
insurance, maintenance, gasoline, and other operating expenses. The Company
will provide appropriate security at Mr. Buckley’s personal residences.
The agreement provides that Mr. Buckley will earn
a supplemental retirement benefit payable in the form of a lump-sum at the time
of his termination of employment. The amount of this benefit will be the
actuarially equivalent present value of the amount by which (a) a single
life annuity payable for Mr. Buckley’s lifetime commencing at age 60 (or,
if later, on the date of his termination of employment) equal to 40 percent of
his highest average annual cash compensation (base salary plus bonus) during
any three consecutive years during his final ten years of employment, exceeds (b) the
sum of his actual pension benefits payable at age 60 (or, if later, on the date
of his termination of employment) under the plans of the Company and his
previous employers. The benefit formula for this supplemental retirement
benefit increases by 2 percent (from 40 percent) for each full year following Mr. Buckley’s
60th birthday that he remains employed by the Company, up to a maximum of 50 percent.
This supplemental retirement benefit vests in full on December 6, 2010, upon
Mr. Buckley’s death or termination due to disability, upon a termination
of his employment by the Company without Cause, or upon a termination of his
employment by Mr. Buckley for Good Reason. In the event of Mr. Buckley’s
death or termination due to disability prior to his 60th birthday, the benefit
formula increases to 50 percent, the annuity amounts described in (a) and (b) above
are those commencing at age 65, and the entire benefit amount is multiplied by
a fraction, the numerator of which is Mr. Buckley’s years of service with
the Company through his date of death or termination and the denominator of
which is 6.
The agreement requires the
Company to pay Mr. Buckley’s reasonable legal and other professional fees
incurred in connection with the completion of his employment agreement, up to a
maximum of $125,000, and pay him a tax gross-up payment with respect to its
payments of such fees.
Patrick D. Campbell
3M entered into an employment
agreement with Patrick D. Campbell at the time he was hired to serve as the
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. While most of
this agreement’s terms expired on the third anniversary of his employment
commencement date (February 1, 2005), several of its provisions survived
and remain in effect today.
The agreement requires the
Company to provide Mr. Campbell supplemental retirement benefits. If he
remains employed by 3M for at least ten years, the supplemental benefits will
be payable in the form of an annuity payable for his lifetime commencing at age
60 and based on 45 percent of his highest average annual compensation over a
four-year period. If Mr. Campbell is employed by 3M for less than ten
years, the amount of these supplemental retirement benefits will be prorated
accordingly. The amount of such benefits will be reduced by the amount of his
benefits under 3M’s other pension plans and the pension plans of his prior
employer. Once he completed two years of employment with 3M, the agreement
provided that the sum of these supplemental retirement benefits and the
benefits payable under 3M’s pension plans would not be less than $100,000 per
year. These supplemental retirement benefits (other than the $100,000 minimum
benefit, which vested after two years of employment with the Company) vest
after five years of employment with the Company, although they vest immediately
in the event of the termination of his employment by reason of death or
disability, termination without cause, or termination for good reason.
Richard F. Ziegler
3M has also entered
into an employment agreement with Richard F. Ziegler providing for his
employment as Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel of the
Company. While most 
45 


of this agreement’s terms expired on the third
anniversary of his employment commencement date (January 1, 2006), several
of its provisions survived and remain in effect today.
Pursuant to the agreement, the
Company granted Mr. Ziegler 12,000 shares of restricted stock effective as
of the agreement’s effective date (February 1, 2003). These shares vest in
increments of one-third on the 1st of
January in the years 2006, 2008, and 2010, assuming he remains employed by
the Company, although such vesting accelerates in the event of termination of Mr. Ziegler’s
employment by reason of death or disability, termination without cause,
termination for good reason, or a change in control of the Company.
The agreement also
requires 3M to provide Mr. Ziegler supplemental retirement benefits. If he
remains employed by the Company for at least nine years, the supplemental
benefits will be payable in the form of an annuity payable for his lifetime
commencing at age 62 and based on 45 percent of his highest average annual
compensation over a four-year period. If Mr. Ziegler is employed by the
Company for less than nine years, the amount of these supplemental retirement
benefits will be prorated accordingly. The amount of such benefits will be
reduced by the amount of his benefits under 3M’s other pension plans. Once he
completed two years of employment with 3M, the agreement provided that the sum
of these supplemental retirement benefits and the benefits payable under 3M’s
other pension plans would not be less than $300,000 per year. These
supplemental retirement benefits (other than the $300,000 minimum benefit,
which vested after two years of employment with the Company) vest after five
years of employment with the Company, although they vest immediately in the
event of the termination of his employment by reason of death or disability,
termination without cause, or termination for good reason.
On March 14, 2007,
the Company entered into a letter agreement with Mr. Ziegler describing
the terms of his retirement from the Company effective January 1, 2008
(the “Letter Agreement”), a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to
the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 19,
2007. The terms of the Letter Agreement are consistent with previously
disclosed grants and awards and the provisions of his employment agreement and
of 3M’s benefit plans and programs. The Letter Agreement also includes other
customary provisions including a release of claims. Mr. Ziegler will cease
to serve as Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel effective
March 31, 2007, but will continue to be employed by 3M thereafter until
his retirement.
46




OUTSTANDING EQUITY
AWARDS AT FISCAL YEAR-END




 


 


Option Awards


 


Stock Awards


 




Name


 


Number of
  Securities
  Underlying
  Unexercised
  Options (#)
  Exercisable


 


Number of
  Securities
  Underlying
  Unexercised
  Options (#)
  Unexercisable


 


Option
  Exercise
  Price ($)


 


Option
  Expiration
  Date


 


Number of
  Shares or
  Units of Stock
  That Have Not
  Vested


 


Market Value
  of Shares or
  Units of Stock
  That Have Not
  Vested ($)


 




George W. Buckley


 


 


50,000


 


 


 


200,000


(1)


 


 


$


78.150


 


 


12/06/2015


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


 


 


 


 


286,807


(2)


 


 


$


87.350


 


 


05/09/2016


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


254


(5)


 


 


$


19,794


 


 







 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


230


(5)


 


 


$


17,924


 


 







 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


259


(5)


 


 


$


20,184


 


 







 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


238


(5)


 


 


$


18,547


 


 







 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


40,000


(5)


 


 


$


3,117,200


 


 







 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


132,808


(6)


 


 


$


10,349,727


 


 




Patrick D. Campbell


 


 


35,301


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


55.975


 


 


02/01/2012


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


40,000


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


64.500


 


 


05/14/2012


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


44,000


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


61.850


 


 


05/12/2013


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


64,873


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


84.400


 


 


05/09/2014


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


23,491


 


 


 


47,694


(3)


 


 


$


76.800


 


 


05/10/2015


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


7,289


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


80.950


 


 


05/06/2011


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


73,000


(2)


 


 


$


87.350


 


 


05/09/2016


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Moe S. Nozari


 


 


2,104


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


47.500


 


 


05/10/2009


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


2,306


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


43.350


 


 


05/09/2010


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


1,704


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


58.625


 


 


05/08/2011


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


15,769


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


64.500


 


 


05/14/2012


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


63,000


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


84.400


 


 


05/09/2014


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


16,670


 


 


 


33,848


(3)


 


 


$


76.800


 


 


05/10/2015


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


13,065


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


87.750


 


 


05/11/2007


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


10,837


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


86.650


 


 


05/12/2008


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


2,270


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


87.750


 


 


05/12/2008


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


19,414


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


86.650


 


 


05/11/2009


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


18,381


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


86.650


 


 


05/07/2010


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


20,565


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


86.000


 


 


05/06/2011


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


30,351


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


86.000


 


 


05/06/2011


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


52,795


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


87.750


 


 


05/14/2012


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


29,218


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


86.000


 


 


05/13/2013


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


30,318


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


87.750


 


 


05/13/2013


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


 


 


 


 


52,000


(2)


 


 


$


87.350


 


 


05/09/2016


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


7,500


(7)


 


 


$ 


584,475 


 


 




Frederick J. Palensky


 


 


1,071


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


46.675


 


 


05/12/2008


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


2,104


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


47.500


 


 


05/10/2009


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


2,306


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


43.350


 


 


05/09/2010


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


1,704


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


58.625


 


 


05/08/2011


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


26,517


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


64.500


 


 


05/14/2012


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


40,000


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


61.850


 


 


05/12/2013


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


44,891


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


84.400


 


 


05/09/2014


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


12,882


 


 


 


26,155


(3)


 


 


$


76.800


 


 


05/10/2015


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


6,958


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


63.525


 


 


05/12/2008


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


822


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


63.525


 


 


05/11/2009


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


5,235


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


85.500


 


 


05/11/2009


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


6,540


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


63.525


 


 


05/07/2010


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


9,705


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


85.500


 


 


05/06/2011


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


25,663


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


76.450


 


 


05/06/2011


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


9,684


(4)


 


 


$


79.050


 


 


05/06/2011


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


17,610


(4)


 


 


$


79.050


 


 


05/14/2012


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


52,000


(2)


 


 


$


87.350


 


 


05/09/2016


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Richard F. Ziegler


 


 


42,175


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


61.850


 


 


05/12/2013


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


46,932


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


84.400


 


 


05/09/2014


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


15,155


 


 


 


30,771


(3)


 


 


$


76.800


 


 


05/10/2015


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


3,269


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


78.850


 


 


05/13/2013


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


 


 


 


 


43,000


(2)


 


 


$


87.350


 


 


05/09/2016


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


8,000


(8)


 


 


$


623,440


 


 




 
47 


FOOTNOTES TO OUTSTANDING EQUITY AWARDS
AT FISCAL YEAR-END TABLE
(1) These stock options vest in
increments of 25 percent on each of December 6, 2007, December 6, 2008,
December 6, 2009, and December 6, 2010. These options become vested and
exercisable in full upon Mr. Buckley’s death or termination due to disability,
upon a termination of his employment by the Company without Cause, upon a
termination of his employment by Mr. Buckley for Good Reason, or upon a change
of control of the Company.
(2) These stock options vest in installments of one-third on May 9,
2007, one-third on May 9, 2008, and one-third on May 11, 2009.
(3) These stock options vest in installments of
one-half on May 10, 2007, and one-half on May 12, 2008.
(4) These
stock options vest in full on May 10, 2007.
(5) These restricted stock units vest in
installments of 25 percent on each of December 6, 2007, December 6, 2008,
December 6, 2009, and December 6, 2010. These restricted stock units become
vested in full upon Mr. Buckley’s death or termination due to disability, upon
a termination of his employment by the Company without Cause, upon a
termination of his employment by Mr. Buckley for Good Reason, or upon a change
of control of the Company.
(6) These
restricted stock units vest in full on December 6, 2010.  These restricted stock units become vested in
full upon Mr. Buckley’s death or termination due to disability, upon a
termination of his employment by the Company without Cause, upon a termination
of his employment by Mr. Buckley for Good Reason, or upon a change of
control of the Company.
(7) These shares of restricted
stock vest in full on June 12, 2009, or upon the date Dr. Nozari retires from
employment with the Company with the consent of the Nominating and Governance
Committee of 3M’s Board of Directors, if earlier.
(8) These shares of restricted
stock vest in installments of one-half on January 1, 2008, and January 1,
2010.  These shares of restricted stock
vest in full upon Mr. Ziegler’s death or termination due to disability, or upon
a change in control of the Company. 
One-half of these shares of restricted stock will become vested upon a
termination of Mr. Ziegler’s employment by the Company without Cause, or upon a
termination of his employment by Mr. Ziegler for Good Reason.
OPTION EXERCISES AND
STOCK VESTED




 


 


Option Exercises and Stock Vested


 




 


 


Option Awards


 


Stock Awards


 




Name


 


 


 


Number of Shares
  Acquired on
  Exercise (#)


 


Value Realized
  on Exercise ($)


 


Number of Shares
  Acquired on
  Vesting (#)


 


Value Realized
  on Vesting ($)


 




George W. Buckley


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


35,245


 


 


 


$


2,775,252


 


 




Patrick D. Campbell


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Moe S. Nozari


 


 


129,843


 


 


 


$


3,166,576


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Frederick J. Palensky


 


 


42,712


 


 


 


$


732,881


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Richard
  F. Ziegler


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


4,000


 


 


 


$


310,000


 


 




























 
PENSION BENEFITS
The following table shows the
present value of the accumulated benefits payable to each of the Named Executive
Officers, as well as the number of years of service credited to each
individual, under each of the Company’s defined benefit pension plans
(including any supplemental arrangements pursuant to their employment
agreements) determined using the same interest rate and mortality 
48 


assumptions as those used for
financial statement reporting purposes. See Note 11 to the Company’s
audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006,
included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2007.







 


 


 


Pension Benefits


 




Name


 


 


 


Plan Name


 


Number
  of Years
  Credited
  Service (#)


 


Present
  Value of
  Accumulated
  Benefits ($)


 


Payments
  During
  Last
  Fiscal
  Year ($)


 




George W. Buckley


 


Employee Retirement Income Plan


 


 


1


 


 


 


36,304


 


 


 


0


 


 







 


Nonqualified Pension Plan


 


 


1


 


 


 


659,067


 


 


 


0


 


 







 


Supplemental Retirement Plan


 


 


1


 


 


 


8,587,354


 


 


 


0


 


 




Patrick D. Campbell


 


Employee Retirement
  Income Plan


 


 


4


 


 


 


113,377


 


 


 


0


 


 




 


 


Nonqualified Pension Plan


 


 


4


 


 


 


529,719


 


 


 


0


 


 




 


 


Supplemental Retirement Plan


 


 


4


 


 


 


599,623


 


 


 


0


 


 




Moe S. Nozari


 


Employee Retirement
  Income Plan


 


 


35


 


 


 


1,112,676


 


 


 


0


 


 







 


Nonqualified Pension Plan


 


 


35


 


 


 


4,535,133


 


 


 


0


 


 




Frederick J. Palensky


 


Employee Retirement
  Income Plan


 


 


30


 


 


 


829,562


 


 


 


0


 


 




 


 


Nonqualified Pension Plan


 


 


30


 


 


 


1,969,598


 


 


 


0


 


 




Richard F. Ziegler


 


Employee Retirement
  Income Plan


 


 


4


 


 


 


110,284


 


 


 


0


 


 







 


Nonqualified Pension Plan


 


 


4


 


 


 


549,057


 


 


 


0


 


 







 


Supplemental
  Retirement Plan


 


 


4


 


 


 


1,783,408


 


 


 


0


 


 




 
The Employee Retirement Income Plan (“ERIP”) is a
tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan maintained by 3M for its eligible employees
in the United States. Effective January 1, 2001, the Company amended the
ERIP to include a pension equity formula for (1) employees hired or
rehired on or after January 1, 2001, and (2) employees who
voluntarily elected the pension equity formula during the one-time choice
election period in 2001. Of the Named Executive Officers, Dr. Nozari and Dr. Palensky
participate under the non-pension equity formula of the ERIP (the Portfolio I
Plan), while Mr. Buckley, Mr. Campbell, and Mr. Ziegler participate
under the pension equity formula of the ERIP (the Portfolio II  Plan). Retirement benefits under the ERIP are
based on an employee’s years of service and average annual earnings during the
employee’s four highest-paid consecutive years of service. As applied to the
Named Executive Officers, earnings for purposes of the ERIP include base salary,
profit sharing, and annual incentive compensation.
Under the Portfolio I Plan, employees earn annual
benefits payable at retirement generally equal to 1.15 percent of their high-four
average annual earnings multiplied by their years of service plus 0.35 percent
of their high-four average annual earnings in excess of a Social Security
breakpoint multiplied by their years of service (up to a maximum of 35 years). The
Social Security breakpoint is an average of the Social Security taxable wage
bases for each of the 35 years ending with the year each employee qualifies for
receiving unreduced Social Security retirement benefits. Under the Portfolio I
Plan, an employee may retire with an unreduced pension at age 60 (61 or 62 for
employees born after 1942) and if the employee’s age and service at the time of
retirement total at least 90 (91 or 92 for employees born after 1942) the
employee would receive a Social Security bridge payment until age 62. Dr. Nozari
is entitled to retire with unreduced pension benefits payable under the
Portfolio I Plan. Dr. Palensky is entitled to retire with reduced early
retirement benefits under the Portfolio I Plan, with the reduction being equal
to 5 percent of the pension otherwise payable for each year that he retires
prior to his age 61.
49 


Under the Portfolio II Plan, employees earn a total
pension value payable at retirement based on the number of credits earned during
each year of employment multiplied by their high-four average annual
earnings plus 50 percent of the number of such credits multiplied by their high-four
average annual earnings in excess of a Social Security integration level. The
Social Security integration level is 70 percent of the Social Security taxable
wage base in effect for the year each employee retires or leaves 3M. Under the
Portfolio II Plan, an employee may retire any time after age 55 with at least five
years of service and their annual benefit payable is based on their total
pension value determined at the time of retirement converted to an actuarially
equivalent annuity. Mr. Campbell is entitled to retire with actuarially reduced
early retirement benefits under the Portfolio II Plan.
As a tax-qualified
plan, the ERIP is subject to a variety of limits that apply to both the amount
of any employee’s earnings that may be considered when determining the benefits
earned under the plan as well as the maximum amount of benefits that any
employee may earn. The Nonqualified Pension Plan is designed to provide
additional benefits to employees, including the Named Executive Officers,
affected by these limits. The amount of benefits earned under this Nonqualified
Pension Plan generally equal the amount of benefits an employee was not able to
earn under the ERIP as a result of the limits imposed by federal tax laws. The
benefits earned under this Nonqualified Pension Plan are generally paid at the
same time and in the same form as an employee’s benefits are paid under the
ERIP.
Mr. Buckley, Mr. Campbell, and Mr. Ziegler
also earn supplemental retirement benefits pursuant to their employment
agreements with the Company. These supplemental benefits, which were negotiated
at the time they agreed to leave their previous employers and join 3M, are
designed to replace a portion of the pension benefits they failed to earn under
the plans of their previous employers because they ended their employment
before becoming eligible to retire. 
These supplemental benefits are described in detail in the section
titled “Additional Information Regarding the Employment Agreements of the Named
Executive Officers” following the Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table.
50 


NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED
COMPENSATION
The following table reflects
the participation during 2006 by the Named Executive Officers in two
nonqualified deferred compensation plans offered by the Company. The Deferred
Compensation Plan allows eligible employees to defer for a number of years or
until retirement from the Company the receipt of base salary, profit sharing, annual
incentive compensation, and Performance Unit Plan award payouts. The VIP Plus
Plan allows eligible employees to defer until retirement from the Company the
receipt of base salary, profit sharing, and annual incentive compensation. Earnings
are credited to the amounts deferred under both plans based on the returns paid
on the investment funds available to participants in 3M’s qualified 401(k) plan
or a fixed rate of return based on corporate bond yields (as selected by each
participant).




 


 


Nonqualified Deferred Compensation


 




Name


 


 


 


Executive
  Contributions
  in Last FY ($)


 


Registrant
  Contributions
  in Last FY ($)


 


Aggregate
  Earnings in
  Last FY ($)


 


Aggregate
  Withdrawals/
  Distributions ($)


 


Aggregate
  Balance at Last
  FYE ($)


 




George W. Buckley


 


 


0


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


0


 


 




Patrick D. Campbell


 


 


115,685


(1)


 


 


8,411


(2)


 


 


69,229


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


576,802


 


 




Moe S. Nozari


 


 


0


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


55,779


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


329,366


 


 




Frederick J. Palensky


 


 


215,767


(1)


 


 


0


 


 


 


64,992


 


 


 


86,188


 


 


 


1,293,871


 


 




Richard F. Ziegler


 


 


109,882


(1)


 


 


9,028


(2)


 


 


18,722


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


279,710


 


 






























 
FOOTNOTES TO NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION
TABLE
(1) With the exception of the entire amount of the
contributions by Dr. Palensky, and $12,008 of the contributions by
Mr. Campbell, all of these amounts contributed by the executives are
included in the Summary Compensation Table as Salary or Non-Equity Incentive
Plan Compensation earned in 2006.
(2) Each of these amounts contributed by the Company on behalf of these
executives is included in the “All Other Compensation” column of the Summary
Compensation Table.
51




POTENTIAL PAYMENTS UPON
TERMINATION OR CHANGE IN CONTROL
The Company has entered into
employment agreements with three of the Named Executive Officers that will require
it to make payments to these individuals in the event of the termination of
their employment or change in control of the Company. In addition, many of the
Company’s executive compensation, benefit, and deferred compensation plans
provide the Named Executive Officers with certain rights or the right to
receive payments in the event of the termination of their employment or upon a
change in control of the Company. The amounts payable to each of the Named
Executive Officers in each situation is described below, assuming that each
individual’s employment had terminated or a change in control of the Company
had occurred on December 29, 2006.
Generally Available Compensation and Benefit Plans
Each of 3M’s Named Executive Officers is eligible to
participate in and receive compensation or benefits under several plans of the
Company that provide for certain payments or rights in the event of the death
of the individual or a change in control of the Company. Both of the Company’s
deferred compensation programs, the Deferred Compensation Plan and the VIP Plus
Plan, provide that the plans will terminate and pay out the account balances of
all participants immediately following a change in control of the Company. The
Performance Unit Plan provides that the plan will terminate and the Company
will immediately pay out the pro rata value of all outstanding performance
units immediately following a change in control of the Company (based on the
higher of the value of the units for the most recently completed performance period
or the value of the outstanding units as if the performance of the Company
during the remainder of each respective performance period equaled its
performance to the date of the change in control). Upon the death of a
participating executive, the Performance Unit Plan provides that all
outstanding performance units granted to such executive will be paid out to the
executive’s beneficiaries or estate (based on the actual performance of the
Company for any performance period completed prior to the death of the
executive and at the par value of such units for any performance period that
has not been completed by the date of death of an executive). The Nonqualified
Pension Plan provides that, in the event of a change in control of the Company,
the plan will terminate and pay out the remaining accrued benefits of all
participants in either an immediate lump-sum cash payment or through the
purchase of annuity contracts designed to pay the pension benefits that would
otherwise have been paid following the retirement of each participant. The
Management Stock Ownership Program provides that all outstanding stock options,
restricted stock, and restricted stock units will immediately vest in full upon
the death of the participant or a change in control of the Company. The
Management Stock Ownership Program also provides that the outstanding stock
options of an individual who retires from employment with the Company do not
expire but may continue to be exercised (after they have vested) after the
retirement of the individual for the remainder of the term of each option. The
Management Stock Ownership Program also provides that the outstanding stock
options of an individual who dies will immediately vest and may be exercised
for up to two years following the death of such individual (but not beyond the
original expiration date of an option). With the exception of the Management
Stock Ownership Program, these plans define a change in control of the Company
as the ownership by one person of at least 30 percent of the voting securities
of the Company or the replacement of at least 50 percent of the members of the
Company’s Board of Directors. The Management Stock Ownership Program defines a
change in control of the Company as the ownership by one person of at least 20
percent of the voting securities of the Company or the replacement of at least
50 percent of the members of the Company’s Board of Directors.
The amounts shown below for each of the Named
Executive Officers do not include payments and benefits generally provided on a
non-discriminatory basis to all similarly situated salaried employees of the
Company upon the termination of their employment with the Company, including:
(a) accrued salary, profit sharing, and unused vacation benefits,
(b) accrued pension benefits under 
52 


the Employee Retirement Income Plan and the
Nonqualified Pension Plan, (c) retiree welfare benefits provided to
substantially all of the Company’s U.S. employees, including retiree medical
and dental benefits, (d) distributions of account balances under the
Company’s qualified 401(k) plan, and (e) vesting of stock options
granted under the Management Stock Ownership Program upon the death of an
individual or a change in control of the Company, and the continued
exercisability of stock options granted under such Program following the death
or retirement of an individual.
George W. Buckley
Mr.  Buckley’s employment agreement with the Company provides that in
the event the Company terminates his employment without Cause or if he
terminates his employment with Good Reason, he would receive: (a) cash
severance equal to two times the sum of his annual base salary and target
annual bonus payable in the form of 24 equal monthly installments (or in the
form of an immediate lump-sum if the termination follows a Change of Control of
the Company), (b) a pro rata portion of the annual bonus that he would
otherwise have earned for the year in which his employment so terminates,
(c) if a Change of Control of the Company causes any payment upon his termination
of employment to be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the
Internal Revenue Code, a tax gross-up payment with which to pay such tax and
the additional taxes payable as a result of such payment, and
(d) immediate vesting of the stock options, restricted stock units,
performance units, and supplemental retirement benefits provided under the
agreement, and continued welfare benefits for the period that cash severance
benefits are payable. No severance benefits (other than accrued salary, bonus,
and benefits) are payable in the event of the termination of Mr. Buckley’s
employment by the Company for Cause or by Mr. Buckley without Good Reason.
In the event of the termination of Mr. Buckley’s employment due to his
death or disability, no severance benefits are payable (other than accrued
salary, bonus, and benefits, including the supplemental retirement benefits
provided under the agreement) other than a pro rata portion of the annual bonus
he would otherwise have earned for the year in which his employment so
terminates. If any payment or other benefit provided to Mr. Buckley
pursuant to his employment agreement would be subject to the excise tax imposed
by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code, Mr. Buckley would be
entitled to receive a tax gross-up payment with which to pay such tax and the
additional taxes payable as a result of such payment. As a condition to
receiving any cash severance, pro rata annual bonus or supplemental retirement
benefits, Mr. Buckley will sign and deliver to the Company a standard
release of claims. In his employment agreement with the Company and as
confirmed in the release of claims, Mr. Buckley agrees that for a period
of two years following the termination of his employment he will: (1) 
neither employ nor seek to employ any employee of the Company or encourage them
to leave the Company, and (2) neither acquire an ownership interest in or
perform certain services for a competitor of the Company.
For purposes of
Mr. Buckley’s employment agreement, Cause means any of the following:
(i) his commission of a felony or misdemeanor involving fraud, dishonesty,
or moral turpitude, (ii) his material breach of such employment agreement,
(iii) willful or intentional material misconduct by Mr. Buckley in
the performance of his duties, (iv) willful and intentional failure by
Mr. Buckley to materially comply with a specific, written direction of the
Board of Directors that is consistent with normal business practice and not
inconsistent with his responsibilities under such employment agreement,
(v) a material violation of the Company’s conflict of interest policy,
(vi) a material violation of any Company policy that would be grounds for
the immediate dismissal of any senior executive of the Company, or
(vii) an order or determination of any court, administrative agency, or
other entity that has the effect of prohibiting Mr. Buckley from
performing his responsibilities under such employment agreement. For purposes
of Mr. Buckley’s employment agreement, Good Reason means any of the following
(unless he agrees in writing that a specific event shall not be Good Reason):
(i) the Company’s material breach of his employment agreement,
(ii) the Company’s failure to assign his employment agreement to a
successor of the Company or such successor’s failure to explicitly 
53 


assume and agree to be bound by such agreement,
(iii) a requirement that Mr. Buckley be principally based at any
office or location more than 30 miles from the Company’s current headquarters
in St. Paul, Minnesota, or (iv) upon or following a Change of Control of
the Company, the failure to nominate and elect Mr. Buckley to serve as the
chief executive officer, chairman of the board, or most senior executive
officer of the Company or its top-tier parent entity. For purposes of Mr. Buckley’s
employment agreement, a Change of Control of the Company means any of the
following (unless he agrees in writing that a specific event shall not be
considered a Change of Control): (i) any person becomes the owner of 20
percent or more of the voting securities of the Company, (ii) the members
of the Board of Directors of the Company as of December 6, 2005, and their
approved successors fail to constitute at least 50 percent of the members of
such Board of Directors, (iii) a merger, consolidation, or reorganization
involving the Company if the beneficial owners of the Company’s voting
securities immediately before such transaction are not expected to own more
than 50 percent of the voting power of such voting securities in the
corporation resulting from such transaction, (iv) a plan or agreement for
the sale or other disposition of substantially all of the assets of the Company
(other than to an entity more than 50 percent owned by the Company or an entity
more than 50 percent owned by the beneficial owners of the voting securities of
the Company immediately before the sale or other disposition), or
(v) approval of a plan of liquidation by the stockholders of the Company.
If Mr. Buckley’s
employment with the Company had ended as of December 29, 2006, due to
either a termination without Cause by the Company or a termination with Good
Reason by Mr. Buckley, he would have received the following amounts: (a) cash
severance in the amount of $8,400,000 payable in 24 equal monthly
installments,  (b) two years of
continued coverage under the Company’s medical, dental, disability, life
insurance, and other welfare benefit plans applicable to the other senior
executives of the Company, with an estimated value of approximately $28,430
(based on current premium rates for COBRA continuation coverage and the
assumption that these rates will increase approximately 6 percent per year), (c) 197,808
shares of common stock of the Company with a fair market value equal to
$15,415,177 (based on a closing stock price of $77.93 per share on
December 29, 2006), as the result of the vesting of his outstanding
restricted stock units, (d) immediate vesting of 200,000 of the stock
options that he received at the time his employment with the Company commenced,
and the opportunity to exercise such options for a period of up to two years
following the termination date, with an estimated value of $0 since the
exercise price of these options ($78.15) exceeded the closing 3M stock price of
$77.93 on December 29, 2006, (e) a cash payment of $1,987,871 in
satisfaction of his outstanding performance units under the Performance Unit
Plan, and (f) a cash payment of $12,282,823 as the lump-sum actuarial
equivalent present value of his accrued supplemental retirement benefits under
his employment agreement, as the result of the vesting of such supplemental
retirement benefits.
If Mr. Buckley’s
employment with the Company had ended as of December 29, 2006 due to his
death or disability, he or his beneficiaries would have received the following
amounts: (a) 197,808 shares of common stock of the Company with a fair
market value equal to $15,415,177 (based on a closing stock price of $77.93 per
share on December 29, 2006), as the result of the vesting of his
outstanding restricted stock units, (b) immediate vesting of 200,000 of
the stock options that he received at the time his employment with the Company
commenced, and the opportunity to exercise such options for a period of up to two
years following the termination date, with an estimated value of $0 since the
exercise price of these options ($78.15) exceeded the closing 3M stock price of
$77.93 on December 29, 2006, (c) a cash payment of $1,987,871 in
satisfaction of his outstanding performance units under the Performance Unit
Plan, (d) in the event of his death, life insurance proceeds in the amount
of $11,600,000 under the policies issued to him under the Executive Life
Insurance Plan, and (e) a cash payment of $1,955,000 as the lump-sum
actuarial equivalent present value of his accrued supplemental retirement
benefits under his employment agreement, as the result of the vesting of such
supplemental retirement benefits.
54 


If as of December 29, 2006, there had been a
Change of Control of the Company, Mr. Buckley would have received the
following amounts: (a) 197,808 shares of common stock of the Company with
a fair market value equal to $15,415,177 (based on a closing stock price of
$77.93 per share on December 29, 2006), as the result of the vesting of
his outstanding restricted stock units, and (b) a cash payment of
$1,987,871 in satisfaction of his outstanding performance units under the
Performance Unit Plan.
Patrick D. Campbell
Mr.  Campbell’s employment agreement with the Company provides that in
the event the Company terminates his employment without Cause or if he
terminates his employment with Good Reason, he would receive: (a) cash
severance equal to two times the sum of his annual base salary and annual
planned profit sharing if such termination occurs within the first five years
following his employment commencement date and one times the sum of his annual
base salary and annual planned profit sharing if such termination occurs more
than five years but no more than ten years following his employment
commencement date, (b) a period of two years following the termination
date in which to exercise the stock options granted to him at the time his
employment commenced and the stock options he received as his annual stock
option grant for 2002, and (c) immediate vesting of the supplemental
retirement benefits provided under the agreement. No severance benefits (other
than accrued salary, profit sharing, and benefits) are payable in the event of
the termination of Mr. Campbell’s employment by the Company for Cause or
by Mr. Campbell without Good Reason. In the event of the termination of
Mr. Campbell’s employment due to his death or disability, no severance
benefits (other than accrued salary, bonus, and benefits, including the
supplemental retirement benefits provided under the agreement) are payable. If
any payment or other benefit provided to Mr. Campbell pursuant to his
employment agreement would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999
of the Internal Revenue Code, Mr. Campbell would be entitled to receive a
tax gross-up payment with which to pay such tax and the additional taxes
payable as a result of such payment. As a condition to receiving any cash
severance, Mr. Campbell will sign and deliver to the Company a standard
release of claims.
For purposes of
Mr. Campbell’s employment agreement, Cause means any of the following:
(i) his indictment on or commission of a felony or misdemeanor involving
fraud, dishonesty, or moral turpitude, (ii) his material breach of such
employment agreement, (iii) willful or intentional material misconduct by
Mr. Campbell in the performance of his duties, or (iv) willful or
intentional failure by Mr. Campbell to materially comply with a specific,
written direction of the Chief Executive Officer that is consistent with normal
business practice and with his responsibilities under such employment
agreement. For purposes of Mr. Campbell’s employment agreement, Good
Reason means any of the following (unless he agrees in writing that a specific
event shall not be Good Reason): (i) the Company reduces his annual
planned cash compensation by more than 15 percent, (ii) his relocation to
a primary work site located more than 50 miles from his then current work site,
or (iii) his reassignment to a position having primary responsibilities
which are significantly less than those of his immediately previous position.
If Mr. Campbell’s employment with the Company had
ended as of December 29, 2006, due to either a termination without Cause
by the Company or a termination with Good Reason by Mr. Campbell, he would
have received the following amounts: (a) cash severance in the amount of
$2,376,000 payable in a single lump-sum payment,  (b) the opportunity to exercise the
remaining balance of 35,301 of the stock options granted to him at the time his
employment commenced for a period of up to two years following the termination
date, with an estimated value of $775,033 (based on the difference between the
exercise price of such options, $55.97, and the closing price of 3M common
stock on December 29, 2006, $77.93), (c) a cash payment of $576,802
from his accounts in the VIP Plus Plan, and (d) a cash payment of $1,561,937
as the lump-sum actuarial equivalent present 
55 


value of his accrued supplemental retirement benefits
under his employment agreement, as the result of the vesting of such
supplemental retirement benefits.
If Mr. Campbell’s
employment with the Company had ended as of December 29, 2006, due to his
death or disability, he or his beneficiaries would have received the following
amounts: (a) a cash payment of $1,780,152 in satisfaction of his
outstanding performance units under the Performance Unit Plan, (b) a cash
payment of $576,802 from his accounts in the VIP Plus Plan, (c) in the
event of his death, life insurance proceeds in the amount of $2,255,525 under
the policies issued to him under the Executive Life Insurance Plan, and (d) a
cash payment of $1,561,937 (in the event of a termination due to disability),
or $1,582,154 (in the event of his death) as the lump-sum actuarial equivalent
present value of his accrued supplemental retirement benefits under his
employment agreement, as the result of the vesting of such supplemental
retirement benefits.
If Mr. Campbell’s
employment with the Company had ended as of December 29, 2006, due to
either a termination with Cause by the Company or a termination without Good
Reason by Mr. Campbell, he would have received a cash payment of $576,802
from his accounts in the VIP Plus Plan.
If as of December 29, 2006, there had been a
Change of Control of the Company, Mr. Campbell would have received the
following amounts: (a) a cash payment of $1,563,338 in satisfaction of his
outstanding performance units under the Performance Unit Plan, (b) a cash
payment of $576,802 from his accounts in the VIP Plus Plan.
Moe S. Nozari
Dr. Nozari does not have an employment agreement with
the Company. As of December 29, 2006, he was eligible to immediately
retire from employment with the Company.
If Dr. Nozari’s
employment with the Company had ended as of December 29, 2006, due to his
voluntary or involuntary retirement, he would have received the following
amounts: (a) payouts of his outstanding performance units granted under
the Performance Unit Plan in 2004, 2005, and 2006 at the same time as the other
executives participating in such plan, based on the performance of the Company
during the respective performance periods, with an estimated value of
$1,420,268, and (b) a cash payment of $329,366 from his account in the VIP
Plus Plan.
If Dr. Nozari’s
employment with the Company had ended as of December 29, 2006, due to his
death, his beneficiaries would have received the following amounts: (a) a
cash payment of $1,348,152 in satisfaction of his outstanding performance units
granted under the Performance Unit Plan, (b) 7,500 shares of common stock
of the Company with a fair market value equal to $584,475 (based on a closing
stock price of $77.93 per share on December 29, 2006), as the result of
the vesting of the shares of restricted stock granted to him during 2006, and (c) life
insurance proceeds in the amount of $2,020,429 under the policies issued to him
under the Executive Life Insurance Plan.
If as of December 29, 2006, there had been a
change in control of the Company, Dr. Nozari would have received the
following amounts: (a) a cash payment of $1,194,284 in satisfaction of his
outstanding performance units under the Performance Unit Plan, (b) 7,500
shares of common stock of the Company with a fair market value equal to
$584,475 (based on a closing stock price of $77.93 per share on
December 29, 2006), as the result of the vesting of the shares of
restricted stock granted to him during 2006, and (c) a cash payment of
$329,366 from his account in the VIP Plus Plan.
Frederick J. Palensky
Dr. Palensky does not have an employment
agreement with the Company. As of December 29, 2006, he was eligible to
immediately retire from employment with the Company.
56 


If Dr. Palensky’s
employment with the Company had ended as of December 29, 2006, due to his
voluntary or involuntary retirement, he would have received the following
amounts: (a) payouts of his outstanding performance units granted under
the Performance Unit Plan in 2004, 2005, and 2006 at the same time as the other
executives participating in such plan, based on the performance of the Company
during the respective performance periods, with an estimated value of
$1,383,749, and (b) cash payments of $1,293,871 over the next ten years
from his accounts in the Deferred Compensation Plan.
If Dr. Palensky’s
employment with the Company had ended as of December 29, 2006, due to his
death, his beneficiaries would have received the following amounts: (a) a
cash payment of $1,311,633 in satisfaction of his outstanding performance units
granted under the Performance Unit Plan, (b) cash payments of $1,293,871
over the next ten years from his accounts in the Deferred Compensation Plan,
and (c) life insurance proceeds in the amount of $1,357,661 under the
policies issued to him under the Executive Life Insurance Plan.
If as of December 29, 2006, there had been a
change in control of the Company, Dr. Palensky would have received the
following amounts: (a) a cash payment of $1,157,765 in satisfaction of his
outstanding performance units under the Performance Unit Plan, (b) a cash
payment of $1,293,871 from his accounts in the Deferred Compensation Plan.
Richard F. Ziegler
Mr.  Ziegler’s employment agreement with the
Company provides that in the event the Company terminates his employment
without Cause or if he terminates his employment with Good Reason, he would
receive: (a) cash severance equal to two times the sum of his annual base
salary and annual planned profit sharing if such termination occurs within the
first three years following his employment commencement date and one times the
sum of his annual base salary and annual planned profit sharing if such
termination occurs more than three years but no more than ten years following
his employment commencement date, (b) immediate vesting of a portion of
the shares of restricted stock and of the entire amount of supplemental
retirement benefits provided under the agreement, and (c) a period of two
years following the termination date in which to exercise the stock options he
received as his annual stock option grant for 2003. No severance benefits
(other than accrued salary, profit sharing, and benefits) are payable in the
event of the termination of Mr. Ziegler’s employment by the Company for
Cause or by Mr. Ziegler without Good Reason. In the event of the
termination of Mr. Ziegler’s employment due to his death or disability, no
severance benefits (other than accrued salary, bonus, and benefits, including
the supplemental retirement benefits provided under the agreement) are payable.
If any payment or other benefit provided to Mr. Ziegler pursuant to his
employment agreement would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999
of the Internal Revenue Code, Mr. Ziegler would be entitled to receive a
tax gross-up payment with which to pay such tax and the additional taxes
payable as a result of such payment. As a condition to receiving any cash
severance, Mr. Ziegler will sign and deliver to the Company a standard
release of claims.
For purposes of
Mr. Ziegler’s employment agreement, Cause means any of the following:
(i) his indictment on or commission of a felony or misdemeanor involving
fraud, dishonesty, or moral turpitude, (ii) his material breach of such
employment agreement, (iii) willful and intentional material misconduct by
Mr. Ziegler in the performance of his duties, or (iv) willful or
intentional failure by Mr. Ziegler to materially comply with a specific,
written direction of the Chief Executive Officer that is consistent with normal
business practice and with his responsibilities under such employment
agreement. For purposes of Mr. Ziegler’s employment agreement, Good Reason
means any of the following (unless he agrees in writing that a specific event
shall not be Good Reason): (i) the Company reduces his annual planned cash
compensation, (ii) the Company’s material breach of his employment
agreement, (iii) his relocation to a primary work site located more than
50 miles from his 
57 


then current work site, or (iv) the assignment to
him of duties that are materially inconsistent with his position and duties
described in such employment agreement.
If Mr. Ziegler’s
employment with the Company had ended as of December 29, 2006, due to
either a termination without Cause by the Company or a termination with Good
Reason by Mr. Ziegler, he would have received the following amounts: (a) cash
severance in the amount of $1,199,000 payable in a single lump-sum
payment,  (b) 4,000 shares of common
stock of the Company with a fair market value equal to $311,720 (based on a closing
stock price of $77.93 per share on December 29, 2006), as the result of
the vesting of one-third of the shares of restricted stock granted to him
pursuant to his employment agreement, (c) the opportunity to exercise the
remaining balance of 42,175 of the stock options he received as his annual
stock option grant for 2003 for a period of up to two years following the
termination date, with an estimated value of $678,174 (based on the difference
between the exercise price of such options, $61.85, and the closing price of 3M
common stock on December 29, 2006, $77.93), (d) a cash payment of
$279,710 from his accounts in the VIP Plus Plan, and (e) a cash payment of
$2,625,800 as the lump-sum actuarial equivalent present value of his accrued
supplemental retirement benefits under his employment agreement, as the result
of the vesting of such supplemental retirement benefits.
If Mr. Ziegler’s
employment with the Company had ended as of December 29, 2006, due to his
death or disability, he or his beneficiaries would have received the following
amounts: (a) 8,000 shares of common stock of the Company with a fair
market value equal to $623,440 (based on a closing stock price of $77.93 per
share on December 29, 2006), as the result of the vesting of the remaining
shares of restricted stock granted to him pursuant to his employment agreement,
(b) a cash payment of $1,252,152 in satisfaction of his outstanding
performance units under the Performance Unit Plan, (c) a cash payment of
$279,710 from his accounts in the VIP Plus Plan, (d) in the event of his
death, life insurance proceeds in the amount of $2,339,000 under the policies
issued to him under the Executive Life Insurance Plan, and (e) a cash
payment of $2,625,800 (in the event of a termination due to disability), or
$1,298,225 (in the event of his death) as the lump-sum actuarial equivalent
present value of his accrued supplemental retirement benefits under his
employment agreement, as the result of the vesting of such supplemental
retirement benefits.
If Mr. Ziegler’s
employment with the Company had ended as of December 29, 2006, due to
either a termination with Cause by the Company or a termination without Good
Reason by Mr. Ziegler, he would have received a cash payment of $279,710
from his accounts in the VIP Plus Plan.
If as of December 29, 2006, there had been a
Change of Control of the Company, Mr. Ziegler would have received the
following amounts: (a) 8,000 shares of common stock of the Company with a
fair market value equal to $623,440 (based on a closing stock price of $77.93
per share on December 29, 2006), as the result of the vesting of the
remaining shares of restricted stock granted to him pursuant to his employment
agreement, (b) a cash payment of $1,112,272 in satisfaction of his
outstanding performance units under the Performance Unit Plan, and (c) a
cash payment of $279,710 from his accounts in the VIP Plus Plan.
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE
INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION
The members of the Compensation Committee are named in
the preceding section. No members of the Compensation Committee were officers
or employees of 3M or any of its subsidiaries during the year, were formerly 3M
officers (except that Robert S. Morrison served as interim Chairman of the
Board and Chief Executive Officer from June 30, 2005, to December 6,
2005), or had any relationship otherwise requiring disclosure.
58 


AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
The role of the Audit
Committee includes assisting the Board of Directors in its oversight of the
Company’s financial reporting process. In performing this oversight function,
the Audit Committee has:
·       Reviewed
and discussed the audited consolidated financial statements with management,
which has primary responsibility for the financial statements;
·       Discussed
with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), the Company’s independent registered
public accounting firm, the matters required to be discussed by the statement
on Auditing Standards No. 61, Communication with Audit
Committees, as currently in effect;
·       Received
the written disclosures and the letter from PwC required by Independence
Standards Board Standard No.1, Independence Discussions
with Audit Committees, as currently in effect, and discussed the
independence of PwC with them; and
·       Reviewed
the services provided by PwC, other than their audit services, and concluded
that the PwC’s provision of such other services is compatible with PwC’s
independence.
Based upon the review and discussions described above,
the Committee recommended to the Board of Directors that the audited
consolidated financial statements be included in the Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, for filing with
the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Submitted by the Audit Committee
Edward M. Liddy, Chair
Linda G. Alvarado
Michael L. Eskew
W. James Farrell
Audit Committee Policy on
Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm
The Audit Committee is responsible for appointing and
overseeing the work of the independent registered public accounting firm (“Independent
Accounting Firm”). The Audit Committee has established the following procedures
for the pre-approval of all audit and permissible non-audit services provided
by the Independent Accounting Firm.
Before
engagement of the Independent
Accounting Firm for the next year’s audit, the Independent Accounting Firm will submit a detailed description
of services it expects to render to the Company during that year for each of
the following categories of services to the Audit Committee for approval:
1.    Audit services include audit work performed in the preparation of
consolidated financial statements, as well as work that generally only the
Independent Accounting Firm can reasonably be expected to provide, including
comfort letters, statutory audits, and attest services and consultation
regarding financial accounting and/or reporting standards.
2.    Audit related services are for assurance and related services
that are traditionally performed by the Independent Accounting Firm, including
due diligence related to mergers and acquisitions, employee benefit plan
audits, and special procedures required to meet certain regulatory
requirements.
3.    Tax services include all services performed by the Independent
Accounting Firm’s tax personnel except those services specifically related to
the audit of the financial statements, and includes fees in the areas of tax
compliance, tax planning, and tax advice.
59 


4.    Other services are those services not captured in the other
categories.
Before engagement, the Audit
Committee pre-approves these services by category of service. The fees are
budgeted and the Audit Committee requires the Independent Accounting Firm to report
actual fees versus the budget periodically throughout the year by category of
service. During the year, circumstances may arise when it may become necessary
to engage the Independent Accounting
Firm for additional services not contemplated in the original
pre-approval. In those instances, the Audit Committee requires specific
pre-approval before engaging the Independent
Accounting Firm.
The Audit Committee has
delegated pre-approval authority to the chair of the Committee. The chair must
report, for informational purposes only, any pre-approval decisions to the
Audit Committee at its next scheduled meeting.
FEES OF
THE INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
The following table presents
fees for professional services rendered by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the
audit of the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2006, and fees billed for other services rendered by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP during those periods.
Audit and Non-Audit Fees ($ in millions)




 


 


2005


 


2006


 




Audit Fees: (1)


 


$


10.9


 


$


11.4


 




Audit Related Fees: (2)


 


0.6


 


2.7


 




Tax Fees: (3)


 


1.3


 


1.3


 




All Other Fees:


 


0.0


 


0.1


 




Total


 


$


12.8


 


$


15.5


 




 
(1)    Audit
fees consisted of audit work and review services, as well as work generally
only the independent registered public accounting firm can reasonably be
expected to provide, such as statutory audits, comfort letters, consents, and
assistance with and review of documents filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Audit Fees for 2006 include fees associated with business
combinations, corporatewide restructuring, and the sale of the Pharmaceuticals
business.
(2)    Audit related fees
consisted principally of carve-out audits related to the Pharmaceuticals
business and audits of employee benefit plans.
(3)    Tax fees consist
principally of tax planning and compliance.
60




REQUIREMENTS
FOR SUBMISSION OF STOCKHOLDER PROPOSALS
FOR NEXT YEAR’S ANNUAL MEETING
In order for a stockholder proposal to be considered
for inclusion in 3M’s proxy statement for next year’s Annual Meeting, our
Corporate Secretary must receive the proposal no later than 5 p.m. Central
Time on November 27, 2007. Such proposals must be sent via registered,
certified, or express mail (or other means that allows the stockholder to
determine when the proposal was received by the Corporate Secretary) to: Gregg
M. Larson, Associate General Counsel and Secretary, 3M Company, 3M Center,
Building 220-13-W-39, St. Paul, MN 55144-1000. Such
proposals must contain the information required under 3M’s Bylaws, and also
must comply with the SEC’s regulations regarding the inclusion of stockholder
proposals in Company sponsored proxy materials, such as the stockholder
continuing to own a minimum number of shares until the Annual Meeting and
appearing in person or through an authorized representative at the meeting to
present the proposal.
Alternatively, stockholders intending to present a
proposal at next year’s Annual Meeting without having it included in the
Company’s proxy statement must comply with the requirements set forth in the
Company’s Bylaws. Our Bylaws require, among other things, that our Corporate
Secretary receive written notice from the record stockholder no earlier than January 9,
2008, and no later than February 8, 2008. The notice must contain the
information required by the Bylaws, a copy of which is available upon request
to our Corporate Secretary.
Proposals received by the Corporate Secretary after
the dates mentioned will not be included in the proxy statement or acted upon
at the Annual Meeting.
By Order of the Board of
Directors.

GREGG M. LARSON
Associate General Counsel and Secretary
61




APPENDIX
A
DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
GUIDELINES
Determination of
Independence
A director is “independent” if the Board affirmatively
determines that the director has no material relationship with 3M (including
its consolidated subsidiaries) directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer
of an organization that has a relationship with 3M. The Board has established
the following guidelines to assist it in determining director independence
(including nominees for director), that conform to or are more exacting than
the independence requirements in the New York Stock Exchange listing standards
(NYSE Rules). In addition to applying these guidelines, the Board will consider
all relevant facts and circumstances in making an independence determination
not only from the standpoint of the director, but also from that of persons or
organizations with which the director has an affiliation.
1.                In no event will a
director be considered independent if:
a.               Employment Relationship — A director
is, or has been within the last three years, an employee of 3M, or whose
immediate family member(1), is or has been within the last three years, an
executive officer of 3M;
b.              Payments >$100,000 — A director
who received, or whose immediate family member received, more than $100,000 per
year in direct compensation from 3M (other than director fees) within the last
three years;
c.               Auditor Relationships — (i) A
director, or whose immediate family member, is a current partner of 3M’s
internal or external auditor; (ii) a director is a current employee of
such a firm; (iii) a director has an immediate family member who is a
current employee of such a firm and who participates in the firm’s audit,
assurance or tax compliance (but not tax planning) practice; or (iv) a
director, or whose immediate family member, was within the last three years
(but is no longer) a partner or employee of such a firm who personally worked
on 3M’s audit within that time;
d.              Compensation Committee Interlock — A
3M executive officer is on the compensation committee of the board of directors
of a company which employs the 3M director or an immediate family member as an
executive officer;
e.               Commercial Relationships — A director
is a current employee, or an immediate family member is a current executive
officer, of a company that has made payments to, or received payments from, 3M
for property or services in an amount which, in of the last three years,
exceeds the greater of $1 million, or two percent of the director’s company’s
consolidated gross revenues.
2.                Audit Committee
members may not accept any consulting, advisory, or other compensatory fee from
3M, other than directors’ fees.

(1) New York Stock Exchange Rule 303A(2)(b) defines “immediate
family” to include a person’s spouse, parents, children, siblings, mothers- and
fathers-in-law, sons- and daughters-in-law, brothers- and sisters-in-law, and anyone (other than employees) who share such person’s
home.
A-1 


3.                The
following commercial relationships will not be considered to be material
relationships that would impair a director’s independence:
a.               If
a 3M director is an executive officer or employee, or if an immediate family
member is an executive officer, of another company that does business with 3M
and the sales by that company to 3M or purchases by that company from 3M, in
any single year within the last three years, are less than or equal to one
percent of the annual consolidated gross revenues of that company; or
b.              If a 3M director is
an executive officer or employee, or if an immediate family member is an
executive officer, of another company which is indebted to 3M, or to which 3M
is indebted, and the total amount of either company’s indebtedness to the
other, in any single year within the last three years, is less than or equal to
one percent of the other company’s total consolidated assets.
4.                Charitable
relationships will not be considered to be material relationships that would
impair a director’s independence if a 3M director or immediate family member
serves as an officer, director, or trustee of a charitable organization, and 3M’s
discretionary charitable contributions to the organization are less than or
equal to one percent of that organization’s consolidated annual gross revenues.
5.                The Board will
annually make and publicly disclose its independence determination for each
director. The Board may determine that a director who has a relationship that
exceeds the limits described in paragraphs 3 (provided that such a relationship
would not constitute a bar to independence under the NYSE Rules) or 4 is
nonetheless independent. The Company will explain in the next proxy statement
the basis for any Board determination that a relationship is immaterial despite
the fact that it does not meet the categorical independence guidelines. For
example, if a director is the CEO of a company that purchases products and
services from 3M that are more than one percent of that company’s annual
revenues, the independent directors could determine, after considering all of
the relevant circumstances, that such a relationship was immaterial, and that
the director would be considered independent under the NYSE Rules.
6.                The Company will
not make any personal loans or extensions of credit to directors.
7.                All directors are
required to deal at arm’s length with 3M and its subsidiaries and to disclose
circumstances material to the director that might be perceived as a conflict of
interest.
A-2




APPENDIX
B
3M CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
GUIDELINES
(As
amended February 12, 2007)
The Board of Directors (the “Board”)
of 3M Company (“3M” or the “Company”) has adopted these guidelines, which in
conjunction with the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, and Board Committee
charters, form the framework for governance of the Company.
A.   THE
ROLES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT
         1.       The Board of
Directors — The business of the Company is conducted under the
oversight of the Board of Directors. The Board selects the Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer and delegates to the CEO the authority and responsibility to
manage the Company’s operations. The Board of Directors serves as elected
representatives of the shareholders, acts as an advisor and counselor to the
CEO and senior management, and oversees management performance on behalf of
shareholders. The Board also oversees the Company’s strategic and business
planning process and reviews and assesses management’s approach to addressing
significant risks facing the Company.
         2.       Management —
The CEO and senior management are responsible for running the Company’s
business operations.
B.   BOARD
COMPOSITION AND LEADERSHIP
         1.       Chairman of
the Board and Chief Executive Officer — The Board has the
authority to decide whether the positions of Chairman and CEO should be held by
the same person and shall determine the best arrangement for the Company and
its shareholders in light of all relevant and changing circumstances. The Board
currently believes that the same individual should hold the position of
Chairman and CEO (Chairman/CEO).
         2.       Size of the
Board — The number of directors should not exceed a number that
can function efficiently. The Nominating and Governance Committee considers and
makes recommendations to the Board concerning the appropriate size and needs of
the Board.
         3.       Board Independence —
The Board believes in having a substantial majority of independent directors
on the 3M Board. A director is “independent” if the Board affirmatively
determines that the director has no material relationship with the Company
directly or as a partner, shareholder, or officer of an organization that has a
relationship with the Company and otherwise meets the requirements for
independence of the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. The
independent directors will make the Board decisions on corporate governance
matters.
         4.       Board
Membership Criteria — The Nominating and Governance Committee
periodically reviews with the Board the appropriate skills and characteristics
required of Board members given the current Board composition. It is the intent
of the Board that the Board, itself, will be a high performance organization
creating competitive advantage for the Company. To perform as such, the Board
will be comprised of individuals who have distinguished records of leadership
and success in their arena of activity and who will make substantial
contributions to Board operations and effectively represent the interests of
all stockholders. The Board’s assessment of Board candidates includes, but is
not limited to, consideration of: (i) roles and contributions valuable to
the business community, (ii) personal qualities of leadership, character,
judgment, and whether the candidate possesses and maintains throughout service
on the Board a reputation in the community at large of integrity, trust, respect,
competence, and adherence to the highest ethical standards, (iii) relevant
knowledge and diversity of background and experience in such things as
business, manufacturing, technology, finance and accounting, marketing,
international business, 
B-1 


government, and the
like; or (iv) whether the candidate is free of conflicts and has the time
required for preparation, participation, and attendance at all meetings. A
director’s qualifications in light of these criteria is considered at least
each time the director is re-nominated for Board membership.
         5.       Selection of
New Director Candidates — The Nominating and Governance
Committee considers qualified director candidates from several sources,
including stockholders, and evaluates candidates against the current board
membership criteria described above. In addition to these minimum requirements,
the Committee will also evaluate whether the candidate’s skills are
complementary to the existing Board members’ skills, the Board’s needs for
particular expertise in fields such as business, manufacturing, technology,
financial, marketing, international, governmental, or other areas of expertise,
and assess the candidate’s impact on Board dynamics and effectiveness. The
Committee selects candidates that best suit the Board’s current needs and
recommends one or more of such individuals to the Board. Exacting membership
criteria and a rigorous selection process help ensure that candidates
recommended to the Board will effectively represent the balanced best interests
of all stockholders.
         6.       Voting for Directors — Any
nominee for director in an uncontested election (i.e., an election where the
only nominees are those recommended by the Board) who receives a greater number
of votes “withheld” from his or her election than votes “for” such election (a “Majority
Withheld Vote”) will promptly tender his or her resignation for consideration
by the Nominating and Governance Committee.
a.               The Nominating and
Governance Committee will promptly consider the best interests of 3M and its stockholders
and recommend to a committee of independent directors of the Board whether to
accept the tendered resignation or to take some other action, such as rejecting
the resignation and addressing the apparent underlying causes of the withheld
votes.
b.              The Board will
create a committee of all the independent directors who did not receive a
Majority Withheld Vote to consider the Nominating and Governance Committee’s
recommendation and take action within 90 days following the uncontested
election. Thereafter, the committee of independent directors will promptly
disclose its decision and an explanation of how the decision was reached in a
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
c.               Except as provided
below, a director receiving a Majority Withheld Vote shall remain active and
engaged in Board activities during this Nominating and Governance Committee and
Board process.
d.              If one or more
members of the Nominating and Governance Committee receive a Majority Withheld
Vote, then the Board will create a committee of independent directors who did
not receive a Majority Withheld Vote to consider the resignation offers of all
directors receiving a Majority Withheld Vote and determine whether to accept
the tendered resignation(s) or to take some other action and promptly
disclose their decision as described in paragraph 6b above.
e.               Any director who
receives a Majority Withheld Vote and tenders his or her resignation pursuant
to this provision will not participate in the committee action regarding
whether to accept the tendered resignation offer or take some other action.
However, if the only directors who did not receive a Majority Withheld Vote in
the same election constitute three or fewer independent directors, then all
independent directors may participate in the committee action regarding whether
to accept the resignation offer(s) or to take some other action.
B-2 


f.                   This corporate
governance guideline will be summarized in each proxy statement relating to an
election of directors of 3M.
         7.       Director
Orientation and Continuing Education — The Company provides
directors with an orientation and education program to familiarize them with
the Company’s business operations and plans, industry trends and corporate
governance practices, as well as ongoing education on issues facing the Company
and on subjects that would assist the directors in discharging their duties.
         8.       Directors
Who Experience Change in Present Job Responsibilities or Other Relevant
Circumstances — When a director’s principal occupation or
business affiliation changes, or other circumstances arise which may raise
questions about the director’s continuing qualifications in relation to the
Board Membership Criteria set forth above, then the director will tender
her/his resignation, or the Nominating and Governance Committee will ask for
such tender. The Nominating and Governance Committee will consider the tendered
resignation and recommend to the Board the action to be taken.
         9.       Service On
Other For-Profit Boards — Independent directors are encouraged
to evaluate carefully the time required to serve on other boards (excluding
non-profit) taking into account board attendance, preparation, participation,
and effectiveness on these boards. Independent directors must advise the
Chairman/CEO before accepting an invitation to serve on another board to enable
the Company to determine whether (i) any regulatory issues or potential
conflicts are raised by the director accepting such an invitation and (ii) the
director will have the time required for preparation, participation, and
attendance at 3M Board meetings. Independent directors who also serve as CEOs
of publicly traded companies should not serve on more than two boards of public
companies in addition to the 3M Board, and other independent directors should
not serve on more than five other boards of public companies in addition to the
3M Board.
10.         Retirement
Policy — Each nonemployee director must tender her/his
resignation at the annual meeting following her or his 72nd birthday. If circumstances dictate, the
Nominating and Governance Committee may ask a director to continue to serve on
the Board past age 72.
11.         Board
Compensation Review — The Nominating and Governance Committee
will periodically receive reports on the status of Board compensation in
relation to other large U.S. companies and is responsible for recommending to
the Board changes in compensation for nonemployee directors.
12.         Board’s Interaction with Stakeholders — The
Chairman/CEO is responsible for establishing effective communications with the
Company’s stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, employees,
communities, suppliers, creditors, governments, and corporate partners. It is
the policy of the Board that management speaks for the Company. This policy
does not preclude independent directors from meeting with stakeholders, but
management where appropriate should be present at such meetings.
C.   BOARD
OPERATIONS
         1.       Selection of
Agenda Items for Board Meetings — At the first Board meeting of
each year, the Chairman/CEO, in consultation with the lead director, will
propose for the Board’s approval agenda items to be discussed during the course
of the year. Before each meeting, the Chairman/CEO will review proposed agenda
items with the lead director and distribute the agenda in advance to the Board.
Any Board member may ask to include items on the agenda.
         2.       Board
Materials Distributed in Advance — Board members receive
materials related to agenda items sufficiently in advance of Board meetings so
that the directors may prepare to discuss the 
B-3 


items at the meeting.
Sensitive subjects may be discussed at the meeting without distributing written
materials in advance or at the meeting.
         3.       Director Responsibilities —
Directors must exercise their business judgment to act in the best interests of
the shareholders and the Company. In discharging this obligation, directors
reasonably may rely on the Company’s senior executives and its advisors and
auditors. Directors are expected to attend the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
and attend and participate in all meetings of the Board and of committees on
which they serve and to spend the time needed and prepare for and meet as
frequently as necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
         4.       Board
Presentations and Access to Employees — Members of senior
management may be invited to attend part or all of a Board meeting in order to
participate in discussions. Generally, the executive responsible for an area of
the Company’s operations the Board is to consider makes the presentation. Board
members have complete access to all other members of management and Company
employees.
         5.       Board Access
to Independent Advisors — The Board and its committees may seek
advice from outside advisors as appropriate. The Board shall have sole
authority to approve related fees and retention terms.
         6.       Executive Sessions — As
an agenda item for every regularly scheduled board meeting, independent
directors have the opportunity to meet in executive sessions, without the
Chairman/CEO or other members of management present, to consider such matters
as they deem appropriate.
         7.       Lead
Independent Director — The Board has selected an independent
director to serve as lead director. The lead director will be elected
periodically by a majority of the independent directors upon recommendation
from the Nominating and Governance Committee. The lead director will:
a.               preside at all
meetings of the Board at which the Chairman is not present, including executive
sessions of the independent directors;
b.              act as a key liaison
between the Chairman/CEO and the independent directors;
c.               will assist the
Chairman/CEO in setting the Board agenda and frequency of meetings;
d.              has the authority to
call meetings of the independent directors;
e.               will communicate
Board member feedback to the Chairman/CEO (except that the chair of the
Compensation Committee leads the discussion of the Chairman/CEO’s performance
and communicates the Board’s evaluation of that performance to the
Chairman/CEO); and
f.                   perform such
other duties as requested by the Board.
The name of, and a means of contacting, the lead
director will be made public in the Company’s proxy statement for the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.
D.   BOARD
COMMITTEES
         1.       Committees —
The current committees are Audit, Compensation, Finance, and Nominating and
Governance.
         2.       Assignment
and Term of Service of Committee Members — The Board is
responsible for the appointment of committee members and chairs, based on
recommendations of the Nominating and Governance Committee.
         3.       Agenda, Frequency, Length,
and Reports of Committee Meetings — The chair of each committee
approves the agenda, length of, and attendance at each committee meeting and
determines the frequency of meetings. Materials related to agenda items are
given to the committee members 
B-4 


sufficiently in advance
to allow the members to prepare for discussing the items at the meeting. The
committee chairs report a summary of their meeting to the Board following each
regular committee meeting.
         4.       Membership —
Only independent directors may serve on the Audit, Compensation, Finance, and
Nominating and Governance Committees.
         5.       Responsibilities —
The Board periodically reviews the responsibilities of each
committee and approves the committee charters, copies of which are attached to
these guidelines.
E.   BOARD
AND MANAGEMENT EVALUATION
         1.       Formal Evaluation of the
Chairman/CEO — The Compensation Committee, in consultation with
the Chairman/CEO, sets annual and long-term performance goals for the
Chairman/CEO. The chair of the Compensation Committee leads the discussion of
the Chairman/CEO’s performance against such goals with the independent
directors and communicates the Board’s evaluation to the Chairman/CEO. The
Compensation Committee will use the evaluation when determining the
compensation of the Chairman/CEO.
         2.       Board
Self-Assessment — The Board will conduct an annual
self-evaluation to determine whether it and its committees are functioning
effectively. The Nominating and Governance Committee will receive comments from
all directors and share those comments with the Board. Based on the comments
and further discussion, the Board will make an assessment specifically
reviewing areas in which the Board and/or the management believe improvements
could be made to increase the effectiveness of the Board and its committees.
         3.       Succession Planning —
The Board plans the succession to the position of Chairman/CEO and certain
other senior management positions. To assist the Board, the Chairman/CEO
annually assesses senior managers and their succession potential. The
Chairman/CEO also provides the Board with an assessment of persons considered
potential successors to certain senior management positions.
         4.       Management
Development — The Chairman/CEO annually should report to the
Board on the Company’s program for management development.
Policy on Adoption of a
Rights Plan
In 2002 and 2003, a 3M stockholder submitted a shareholder proposal to
3M regarding the approval process for adopting a stockholders’ rights plan
(also known as a “poison pill”). 3M does not have a rights plan and is not
currently considering adopting one. The Board continues to believe, however,
that there may be circumstances under which adoption of a rights plan would be
necessary to give the Board the negotiating power and leverage to obtain the
best result for 3M stockholders in the context of a takeover effort.
Following consideration of the favorable vote the stockholder proposal
received and in light of this belief, the Board has adopted and reaffirmed a
statement of policy on this topic. The Board’s policy is that it will only
adopt a rights plan if either (1) stockholders have approved adoption of
the rights plan or (2) the Board in its exercise of its fiduciary
responsibilities, including a majority of the independent members of the Board,
makes a determination that, under the circumstances existing at the time, it is
in the best interests of 3M’s stockholders to adopt a rights plan without the
delay in adoption that would come from the time reasonably anticipated to seek
stockholder approval.
The Board has directed the Nominating and Governance Committee to
review this policy statement on an annual basis and to report to the Board on
any recommendations it may have concerning the policy. The terms of the policy,
as in effect, will be included in 3M’s published Corporate Governance
Guidelines and its proxy statement.
B-5




APPENDIX
C
3M Company Board of
Directors
Audit Committee Charter
(As
Affirmed February 12, 2007)
A.               Purpose: The purpose of the Audit Committee (the “Committee”)
of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of 3M Company (the “Company”) is to
assist the Board in its oversight of (i) the integrity of the Company’s
financial statements, (ii) the Company’s compliance with legal and
regulatory requirements, (iii) the qualifications and independence of the
Company’s independent registered public accounting firm (the “Independent Accounting Firm”), and (iv) performance
of the Company’s internal auditing department (“Internal Audit”) and the Independent Accounting Firm.
B.              Membership:
The Committee’s membership is determined by the Board upon recommendation of
the Nominating and Governance Committee and consists of at least three
directors. The members of the Committee shall meet the independence and
experience requirements of the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange
and the requirements for audit committee service set forth in the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Act”), and the rules and
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). At least one
member of the Committee shall be an “audit committee financial expert” as
determined by the Board in compliance with criteria established by the SEC.
Committee members shall not serve on the audit committees of more than two
other public companies unless the Board determines that such service does not
impair the member’s ability to serve effectively on the Committee.
C.              Roles and
Responsibilities: The Committee’s responsibility is one of
oversight. The management of the Company is responsible for the preparation of
complete and accurate annual and quarterly consolidated financial statements (“financial
statements”) in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States and for maintaining appropriate accounting and financial
reporting principles and policies and internal controls designed to assure
compliance with accounting standards and laws and regulations. The Independent Accounting Firm is
responsible for planning and conducting in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board an audit of the Company’s annual
consolidated financial statements and a review of the Company’s quarterly
financial statements. The Committee shall have the authority to take any and
all acts that it deems necessary to carry out its oversight function, including
but not limited to:
1.               Financial Reporting and Disclosure
a.                Review and discuss
the annual audited financial statements and quarterly financial statements with
management and the Independent Accounting Firm, including the disclosures under
the caption “Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.” The Committee shall make a recommendation to the Board
as to whether the audited financial statements should be included in the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K.
b.               Review the Company’s
financial reporting processes, disclosure and internal controls and procedures,
and the process for the CEO and CFO quarterly certifications required by the
SEC with respect to financial statements and the Company’s disclosure and
internal controls and procedures. Such review shall include a consideration of
major issues regarding accounting principles and financial statement
presentations, including any significant changes in the Company’s selection or
application of accounting principles, and any reports by the CEO and CFO regarding
major issues as to the adequacy of the Company’s disclosure and internal
controls and procedures and any special audit steps adopted in light of
identified deficiencies.
C-1 


c.                Review and discuss
with management (including the senior internal audit executive) and the
Independent Accounting Firm the Company’s internal controls report and the
Independent Accounting Firm’s attestation of the report prior to filing of the
Company’s Form 10-K.
d.               Obtain and
periodically review a report from the Independent Accounting Firm, describing (i) all
critical accounting policies and practices to be used in the financial
statements, (ii) all alternative treatments of financial information
within generally accepted accounting principles that have been discussed with
management, ramifications of the use of such alternative disclosures and
treatments, and the treatment preferred by the Independent Accounting Firm, and
(iii) other material written communications between the Independent
Accounting Firm and management, such as any management letter or schedule of
unadjusted differences. Review any reports on such topics or similar topics
prepared by management, including any significant financial reporting issues
and judgments made in connection with the preparation of the financial
statements. Discuss with the Independent Accounting Firm any material issues
raised in such reports.
e.                Discuss earnings
press releases, as well as financial information and earnings guidance provided
to analysts and rating agencies, provided that such discussions may be done
generally (i.e., by discussing the types of information to be disclosed and the
type of presentation to be made). The management will review with the chair of
the Committee earnings press releases prior to issuance.
f.                    Discuss with
management and the Independent Accounting Firm the effect of regulatory and
accounting initiatives, as well as off-balance sheet structures, if any, on the
Company’s financial statements.
2.               Internal Audit
a.                Review the
charter, annual plan and scope of work of Internal Audit, including its
responsibilities and staffing.
b.               Review, as
appropriate, the results of internal audits and discuss related significant
internal control matters with the Company’s internal auditor and Company
management.
c.                Discuss the
adequacy of the Company’s internal controls with Internal Audit.
d.               Review the
appointment and periodically evaluate the performance of the senior internal
auditing executive, who shall have direct access to the Committee.
3.               Independent Accounting Firm
a.                Responsible for
the appointment, retention, termination, compensation, and oversight of the
Independent Accounting Firm. The Committee shall also be responsible for the
resolution of disagreements between management and the Independent Accounting
Firm. The Independent Accounting Firm shall report directly to the Committee.
b.               Review the scope of
the annual audit and services to be provided by the Independent Accounting Firm
during the year. Pre-approve all auditing services, internal control-related
services, and permitted non-audit services to be provided to the Company by the
Independent Accounting Firm, subject to any exceptions provided by the Act. The
chair of the Committee may pre-approve any such services according to the
procedures approved by the Committee, provided that any approval by the chair
must be presented to the Committee at its next meeting.
C-2 


c.                Obtain and review,
at least annually, a report from the Independent Accounting Firm describing: (i) the
Independent Accounting Firm’s internal quality-control procedures; (ii) any
material issues raised by the most recent internal quality-control review, or
peer review, of the Independent Accounting Firm, or by any inquiry or
investigation by governmental or professional authorities, within the preceding
five years, respecting one or more independent audits carried out by the
Independent Accounting Firm, and any steps taken to deal with any such issues;
and (iii) all relationships between the Independent Accounting Firm and
the Company, including the matters set forth in Independence Standards Board
Standard No. 1. Discuss with the Independent Accounting Firm any issues or
relationships disclosed in such report that, in the judgment of the Committee,
may have an impact on the competence or independence of the Independent
Accounting Firm.
d.               Discuss with the
Independent Accounting Firm the matters required to be discussed pursuant to
the Statement on Auditing Standards No. 61, Communication with Audit
Committees, as currently in effect, including any audit problems or
difficulties encountered in performing the audit and management’s response, and
disagreements with management.
e.                Obtain assurance
from the Independent Accounting Firm that the audit was conducted in a manner
consistent with Section 10A(b) of the Act.
f.                    Review and
periodically evaluate the performance of the lead audit partner of the
Independent Accounting Firm and assure the regular rotation of the lead audit
partner and the audit partner responsible for reviewing the audit as required
by law.
g.               Establish policies
for the Company’s hiring of employees or former employees of the Independent
Accounting Firm who participated in any capacity in the audit of the Company.
4.               Risk Management and Compliance
a.                Discuss policies
and procedures with respect to risk assessment and risk management, the Company’s
major risk exposures, and the steps management has taken to monitor and
mitigate such exposures.
b.               Review the
effectiveness of the system for monitoring compliance with laws, regulations,
and the Company’s business conduct policies, and the results of management’s
investigation and follow-up on any fraudulent acts or accounting
irregularities.
c.                Periodically
obtain reports from management regarding compliance.
d.               Review with the
Company’s General Counsel legal matters that may have a material impact on the
consolidated financial statements and any material reports or inquiries
received from regulators or governmental agencies regarding compliance.
e.                Establish
procedures for (i) the receipt, retention, and treatment of complaints
received by the Company regarding accounting, internal accounting controls, or
auditing matters; and (ii) the confidential, anonymous submission by
Company employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing
matters. Review periodically with management and Internal Audit these
procedures and any significant complaints received.
5.               Meetings, Reports, Charter Review, Performance Evaluation and Outside
Advisors
a.                The Committee
shall meet with such frequency and at such intervals as it shall determine is
necessary to carry out its duties and responsibilities, but in any case, not 
C-3 


less than four times a year.
The Committee shall meet separately, periodically, with management, with
internal auditors, and with the Independent Accounting Firm. A majority of the
members shall constitute a quorum. A majority of the members present shall
decide any matter brought before the Committee.
b.               Report regularly to
the Board.
c.                Prepare the report
of the Committee required to be included in the Company’s annual proxy
statement.
d.               Review the adequacy
of this Charter at least annually and recommend any proposed changes to the
Board for approval.
e.                Conduct an annual
performance evaluation of the Committee.
f.                    The Committee
shall have the authority to retain such outside legal, accounting, or other
advisors, as the Committee may deem appropriate in its sole discretion. The
Committee shall have sole authority to approve related fees and retention
terms.
C-4




APPENDIX
D
3M Company Board of
Directors
Compensation Committee Charter
(As
amended February 12, 2007)
A.               Purpose: The Compensation
Committee (the “Committee”) of the Board of
Directors of 3M Company reviews the Company’s compensation practices and
policies including equity compensation programs and postretirement benefit
plans, annually reviews and approves (subject to ratification by the
independent directors of the Board) the compensation for the CEO, annually
reviews and approves the compensation for the other senior executives,
evaluates CEO performance, annually reviews and discusses with management of
the Company the Compensation Discussion and Analysis prepared in accordance
with the SEC’s disclosure rules for executive compensation, and furnishes
a report for inclusion in the Company’s proxy statement.
B.              Membership:
The Committee’s membership is determined by the Board and consists of at least
three directors. All members of the Committee shall meet the independence
requirements of the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange and
qualify as a “Nonemployee Director” for purposes of Rule 16b-3 under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
C.              Roles and
Responsibilities: The responsibilities of the Committee include:
1.               Compensation Practices and Policies
a.                Review
compensation practices and policies of the Company to ensure they provide
appropriate motivation for corporate performance and increased shareholder
value.
b.               Oversee the
administration of the Company’s stock and deferred compensation programs, and
determine the employees who receive awards and the size of those awards under
the Company’s Management Stock Ownership Program.
c.                Make
recommendations to the Board of Directors regarding the adoption, amendment, or
termination of equity compensation programs that require shareholder approval.
d.               Approve the
adoption, amendment, and termination of incentive compensation and deferred
compensation programs for employees of the Company.
e.                Oversee the
administration of the Company’s deferred compensation plans and programs for
its nonemployee directors, and either approve or recommend for the approval of
the Board of Directors amendments to such plans and programs.
f.                    Review and
make recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning the design of the
pension and other postretirement benefit plans that have a material financial
impact upon the Company.
g.               Periodically review
human resource issues relating to the Company’s polices and practices with
respect to workforce diversity and equal employment opportunities.
2.               Executive Compensation
a.                Periodically
survey the executive compensation practices of other large companies.
b.               Annually review and
approve, for the senior executives of the Company (other than the CEO), (i) the
annual base salary, (ii) annual incentive compensation, (iii) awards
under the Company’s Performance Unit Plan, and (iv) stock option grants
and other stock awards under the Company’s Management Stock Ownership Program.
D-1 


c.                Approve for the
senior executives of the Company (other than the CEO) employment agreements,
severance arrangements, change-in-control arrangements, and any special or
supplemental benefits.
d.               Establish
and certify the satisfaction of performance goals for performance-based
compensation as required under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue
Code.
e.                Review shareholder
proposals relating to executive compensation matters and recommend to the Board
the Company’s response to such proposals.
3.               CEO Compensation
a.                Review and approve
annual corporate goals and objectives for the CEO.
b.               The Chairman of the
Committee leads the discussion of the CEO’s performance against such goals and
objectives with the independent directors and communicates the Board’s
evaluation to the CEO.
c.                Annually review
and approve (based on this evaluation), subject to ratification by the
independent directors of the Board, (i) the CEO’s annual base salary, (ii) the
CEO’s annual incentive compensation, (iii) awards to the CEO under the
Company’s Performance Unit Plan, and (iv) stock option grants and other
stock awards to the CEO under the Company’s Management Stock Ownership Program.
In determining the long-term incentive component of CEO compensation, the
Committee will consider the Company’s performance and relative shareholder
return, the value of similar incentive awards to CEOs at other large companies,
and the awards given to the CEO in past years.
d.               Approve, subject to
ratification by the independent directors of the Board, for the CEO employment
agreements, severance arrangements, change-in-control arrangements, and any
special or supplemental benefits.
4.               Meetings, Reports, Charter Review, Performance Evaluation and Outside
Advisors
a.                Hold regular
meetings of the Committee, reporting significant matters arising from such
meetings to the Board. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. A
majority of the members present shall decide any matter brought before the
Committee.
b.               Review and discuss
with management of the Company the Compensation Discussion and Analysis
prepared in accordance with the disclosure rules for executive
compensation of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and furnish a report
for inclusion in the Company’s annual proxy statement.
c.                Review and
reassess the adequacy of this Charter at least annually and submit any changes
to the Board for approval.
d.               Conduct an annual
performance evaluation of the Committee.
e.                The Committee
shall have the authority to retain such compensation consultants, outside
counsel, and other advisors as the Committee may deem appropriate in its sole
discretion. The Committee shall have sole authority to approve related fees and
retention terms.
D-2




APPENDIX
E
3M Company Board of
Directors
Finance Committee Charter
(As
Amended February 12, 2007)
A.               Purpose: The Finance Committee (the “Committee”) of the
Board of Directors of 3M Company assists the Board with its oversight of the
Company’s capital structure, financing, investment, and other financial matters
of importance to the Company.
B.              Membership:
The Committee’s membership is determined by the Board upon recommendation of
the Nominating and Governance Committee and consists of at least three directors.
The members of the Committee shall meet the independence requirements of the
New York Stock Exchange.
C.              Roles and
Responsibilities: The responsibilities of the Committee include:
1.               Capital Structure
a.                Review and
recommend for approval by the Board the dividend policy and the declaration of
dividends or other forms of distributions on the Company’s stock, such as stock
splits in the form of a stock dividend.
b.               Review and
recommend for approval by the Board the repurchase of the Company’s stock.
c.                Review and
recommend for approval by the Board the Company’s short- and long-term
borrowings.
d.               Review and
recommend for approval by the Board the registration and issuance of the
Company’s debt or equity securities, except in the case of the issuance of debt
or equity securities in connection with a merger or acquisition transaction
which is presented to the Board.
e.                Periodically
review the Company’s ratings from credit rating agencies.
2.               Capital Expenditures
a.                Review and
recommend for approval by the Board an annual capital expenditure budget and
revisions to that budget.
b.               Review and
recommend for approval by the Board capital expenditures in excess of
$50,000,000.
3.               Treasury and Tax Matters
a.                Periodically
review the Company’s global treasury and tax planning activities.
b.               Review and evaluate
any risks associated with the Company’s use of or investment in financial
products, including derivatives used to manage risk related to foreign
currencies, commodity prices, and interest rates.
c.                Periodically
review the Company’s insurance coverage.
d.               Periodically review
the funding of the Company’s pension and other benefit plans.
4.               Transactions and Other Matters
a.                Review and
recommend for approval by the Board the following contracts, transactions, or
other commitments in excess of $50,000,000: (i) sale, lease, or purchase
of real estate 
E-1 


and buildings; and (ii) sale
or disposal of equipment, machinery, or other similar tangible assets.
b.               To perform any
other activities as the Committee deems appropriate, or as requested by the
Board consistent with this Charter, the Company’s Bylaws, and applicable law.
5.               Meetings, Reports, Charter Review, Performance Evaluation and Outside
Advisors
a.                Hold regular
meetings of the Committee, reporting significant matters arising from such
meetings to the Board. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. A
majority of the members present shall decide any matter brought before the
Committee.
b.               Review and reassess
the adequacy of this Charter at least annually and submit any changes to the
Board for approval.
c.                Conduct an annual
performance evaluation of the Committee.
d.               The Committee shall
have the authority to retain such outside legal, accounting, or other advisors,
as the Committee may deem appropriate in its sole discretion. The Committee
shall have sole authority to approve related fees and retention terms.
E-2




APPENDIX F
3M Company Board of
Directors
Nominating and Governance Committee Charter
(As
Amended February 12, 2007)
A.               Purpose:   The
Nominating and Governance Committee
(the “Committee”) of the Board of Directors of 3M Company establishes Board
membership criteria, assists the Board by identifying individuals qualified to
become Board members, recommends to the Board matters of corporate governance,
facilitates the annual review of the performance of the Board and its
committees, periodically reviews CEO and management succession plans, and
periodically reviews other matters relating to the governance of the Company.
B.              Membership:   The Committee’s
membership is determined by the Board and consists of at least three directors.
The members of the Committee shall meet the independence requirements of the
New York Stock Exchange.
C.              Roles and
Responsibilities:   The
responsibilities of the Committee include:
1.               Board and Committee Membership
a.                Periodically
review with the Board the appropriate size of the Board and the requisite
skills and characteristics of its members as set forth below.
b.               It
is the intent of the Board that the Board, itself, will be a high performance
organization creating competitive advantage for the Company. To perform as
such, the Board will be comprised of individuals who have distinguished records
of leadership and success in their arena of activity and who will make
substantial contributions to Board operations and effectively represent the
interests of all stockholders.
c.                The
Board’s assessment of Board candidates includes, but is not limited to,
consideration of: (i) roles and contributions valuable to the business
community; (ii) personal qualities of leadership, character, judgment, and
whether the candidate possesses and maintains throughout service on the Board a
reputation in the community at large of integrity, trust, respect, competence,
and adherence to the highest ethical standards; (iii) relevant knowledge
and diversity of background and experience in such things as business,
manufacturing, technology, finance and accounting, marketing, international
business, government, and the like; or (iv) whether the candidate is free
of conflicts and has the time required for preparation, participation, and
attendance at all meetings. A director’s qualifications in light of these
criteria is considered at least each time the director is re-nominated for
Board membership.
d.               Review
the resignation of directors whose principal occupation or business association
changes, or other circumstances arise which may raise questions about the
director’s continuing qualifications in relation to the Board membership
criteria referred to above and recommend to the Board what action the Board
should take with respect to the resignation.
e.                Review
the Board’s committee structure and recommend to the Board the appointment of
committee members and chairs.
2.               Selection of Qualified Director Candidates
a.                Identify
individuals that the Committee believes are qualified to become Board members
in accordance with the Board Membership Criteria set forth above, and recommend
that the Board select such nominee or nominees to stand for election at the
next meeting of stockholders of the Company in which directors will be elected.
F-1 


b.               In
the event there is a vacancy on the Board, identify individuals that the
Committee believes are qualified to become Board members in accordance with the
Board Membership Criteria set forth above, and recommend such person or persons
for appointment to the Board.
c.                Review
and evaluate all stockholder nominees for director (submitted in accordance
with the Company’s Bylaws) in accordance with the Board Membership Criteria set
forth above.
d.               The
Nominating and Governance Committee considers qualified director candidates
from several sources, including stockholders, and evaluates candidates against
the current Board Membership Criteria described above. In addition to these
minimum requirements, the Committee will also evaluate whether the candidate’s
skills are complementary to the existing Board members’ skills, the Board’s
needs for particular expertise in fields such as business, manufacturing,
technology, financial, marketing, international, governmental, or other areas
of expertise, and assess the candidate’s impact on Board dynamics and
effectiveness. The Committee selects candidates that best suit the Board’s
current needs and recommends one or more of such individuals to the Board.
Exacting membership criteria and a rigorous selection process help ensure that
candidates recommended to the Board will effectively represent the balanced
best interests of all stockholders.
3.               Corporate Governance
a.                Review
the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines at least annually, and recommend
any proposed changes to the Board for approval.
b.               Develop
and recommend to the Board standards to be applied in making determinations on
the types of relationships that constitute material relationships between the
Company and a director for purposes of determining director independence.
c.             Review
and approve or ratify any transaction between the Company and any related
person, which is required to be disclosed under the rules of the Securities
and Exchange Commission.
d.               Review
and recommend to the Board proposed changes to the Company’s Certificate of
Incorporation and Bylaws.
e.                Review
shareholder proposals relating to corporate governance and other matters and
recommend to the Board the Company’s response to such proposals.
4.               Board and Committee Self-Assessment. Develop and recommend
to the Board for its approval an annual self-assessment process of the Board
and its committees and oversee the process. Based on this process, the Board
will make an assessment reviewing areas in which the Board and/or Management
believe improvements could be made to increase the effectiveness of the Board.
5.               Succession Planning. Review periodically with the
Chairman/CEO his assessment of corporate officers and succession plans relating
to their positions, and to make recommendations to the Board with respect to
the selection of individuals to occupy these positions.
6.               Miscellaneous Matters
a.                Periodically
review and recommend to the Board changes in Board compensation.
F-2 


b.               Establish
and periodically review and recommend to the Board director retirement
policies.
c.                Periodically
review the corporate contribution program and the activities of the 3M
Foundation.
7.               Meetings, Reports, Charter Review, Performance Evaluation and Outside
Advisors
a.                Hold
regular meetings of the Committee, reporting significant matters arising from
such meetings to the Board. A majority of the members shall constitute a
quorum. A majority of the members present shall decide any matter brought
before the Committee.
b.               Review
and reassess the adequacy of this Charter at least annually and submit any
changes to the Board for approval.
c.                Conduct
an annual performance evaluation of the Committee.
d.               The
Committee shall have the authority to retain search firms to assist in
identifying director candidates, and to retain outside counsel and any other
advisors as the Committee may deem appropriate in its sole discretion. The
Committee shall have sole authority to approve related fees and retention
terms.
F-3




APPENDIX
G-1
Amended to and including
amendments of May 15, 2006                
CERTIFICATE OF
INCORPORATION OF
3M COMPANY
(Original
Certificate Filed on June 25, 1929)
FIRST:   The name of the Corporation is 3M
COMPANY.
SECOND:   The address of its registered office in
the State of Delaware is 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County
of New Castle. The name of its registered agent at such address is The
Corporation Trust Company.
THIRD:   The nature of the business or purposes to
be conducted or promoted is: to engage in any lawful act or activity for which
Corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
FOURTH:   A.   The
total number of shares of all classes of stock which this Corporation shall
have authority to issue is 3,010,000,000 consisting of 10,000,000 shares of
preferred stock without par value and 3,000,000,000 shares of common stock with
a par value of $0.01 per share.
B.   The
designations, powers, preferences, and rights, and the qualifications,
limitations, or restrictions of the preferred stock and the common stock of the
Corporation are as follows:
1.    The
preferred stock may be issued from time to time as shares of one or more series
in any amount, not exceeding in the aggregate, including all shares of any and
all series previously issued, the total number of shares of preferred stock
hereinabove authorized. All shares of any one series of preferred stock shall
rank equally and be identical, except as to the times from which cumulative
dividends, if any, thereon shall be cumulative.
2.    The Board
of Directors of the Corporation is hereby expressly authorized from time to
time to issue preferred stock as preferred stock of any series, and in
connection with the creation of each such series to fix by the resolution or
resolutions, providing for the issue of shares thereof, the designations,
preferences and relative, participating, optional, conditional, or other
special rights, and qualifications, limitations, or restrictions thereof, of
such series, to the full extent now or hereafter permitted by the laws of the
State of Delaware, including, without limitation, the following matters:
(a)   The
designation of such series;
(b)   The rate or
amount and times at which, and the preferences and conditions under which,
dividends shall be payable on shares of such series, the status of such
dividends as cumulative or noncumulative, the date or dates from which
dividends, if cumulative, shall accumulate, and the status of such series as
participating or nonparticipating after the payment of dividends on shares
which are entitled to any preference;
(c)   The voting
rights, if any, of shares of such series in addition to those required by law,
which may be full, limited, multiple, fractional, or none, including any right
to vote as a class either generally or in connection with any specified matter
or matters;
(d)   The amount,
times, terms, and conditions, if any, upon which shares of such series shall be
subject to redemption;
(e)   The rights
and preferences, if any, of the holders of shares of such series in the event
of any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Corporation;
G1-1 


(f)    Whether
the shares of such series shall be entitled to the benefit of a sinking fund to
be applied to the purchase or redemption of such series, and if so entitled,
the amount of such fund and the manner of its application; and
(g)   Whether the
shares of such series shall be made convertible into, or exchangeable for,
shares of any other class or classes or of any other series of the same or any
other class or classes of stock of the Corporation, and if made so convertible
or exchangeable, the conversion price or prices, or the rates of exchange, and
the adjustments, if any, at which such conversion or exchange may be made.
C.   Except for
and subject to those rights expressly granted to the holders of preferred
stock, or any series thereof, by the Board of Directors, pursuant to the
authority hereby vested in the Board or as provided by the laws of the State of
Delaware, the holders of the Corporation’s common stock shall have exclusively
all rights of shareholders and shall possess exclusively all voting power. Each
holder of common stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to one vote for
each share of such stock standing in such holder’s name on the books of the
Corporation.
FIFTH:   The Corporation is to have perpetual
existence.
SIXTH:   In furtherance, and not in limitation of
the powers conferred by statute, the Board of Directors is expressly
authorized:
To make, alter, or repeal the Bylaws of the
Corporation.
To authorize and cause to be executed mortgages and
liens upon the real and personal property of the Corporation.
To set apart out of any funds of the Corporation
available for dividends a reserve or reserves for any proper purpose and to
abolish any such reserve in the manner in which it was created.
By a majority of the whole Board, to designate one or
more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of
the Corporation. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate
members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at
any meeting of the committee. The Bylaws may provide that in the absence or
disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present
at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether the member or members
constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of
Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified
member. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the
Board of Directors, or in the Bylaws of the Corporation, shall have and may
exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the
management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize
the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it;
but no such committee shall have the power or authority in reference to
amending the Certificate of Incorporation, adopting an agreement of merger or
consolidation, recommending to the stockholders the sale, lease, or exchange of
all or substantially all of the Corporation’s property and assets recommending
to the stockholders a dissolution of the Corporation or a revocation of a
dissolution, or amending the Bylaws of the Corporation; and, unless the
resolution or Bylaws expressly so provide, no such committee shall have the
power or authority to declare a dividend or to authorize the issuance of stock.
When and as authorized by the stockholders in accordance
with statute, to sell, lease, or exchange all or substantially all of the
property and assets of the Corporation, including its goodwill and its
corporate franchises, upon such terms and conditions and for such
consideration, which may consist in whole or in part of money or property,
including shares of stock in, and/or other securities of, any other Corporation
or Corporations, as its Board of Directors shall deem expedient and for the
best interest of the Corporation.
G1-2 


SEVENTH:   Meetings of stockholders may be held
within or without the State of Delaware, as the Bylaws may provide. The books
of the Corporation may be kept (subject to any provision contained in the
statutes) outside the State of Delaware at such place or places as may be
designated from time to time by the Board of Directors or in the Bylaws of the
Corporation.
EIGHTH:   This Corporation reserves the right to
amend, alter, change, or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of
Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all
rights conferred upon stockholders herein are granted subject to this
reservation.
NINTH:   Whenever a compromise or arrangement is
proposed between this Corporation and its creditors or any class of them and/or
between this Corporation and its stockholders or any class of them, any court
of equitable jurisdiction within the State of Delaware may, on the application
in a summary way of this Corporation or of any creditor or stockholder thereof
or on the application of any receiver or receivers appointed for this
Corporation under the provisions of Section 291 of Title 8 of the Delaware
Code or on the application of trustees in dissolution or of any receiver or
receivers appointed for this Corporation under the provisions of Section 279
of Title 8 of the Delaware Code, order a meeting of the creditors or class of
creditors, and/or of the stockholders or class of stockholders of this
Corporation, as the case may be, to be summoned in such manner as the said
court directs. If the majority in number representing three-fourths in value of
the creditors or class of creditors, and/or of the stockholders or class of
stockholders of this Corporation, as the case may be, agree to any compromise
or arrangement and to any reorganization of this Corporation as a consequence
of such compromise or arrangement, the said compromise or arrangement and the
said reorganization shall, if sanctioned by the court to which the said
application has been made, be binding on all the creditors or class of
creditors, and/or on all the stockholders or class of stockholders, of this
Corporation as the case may be, and also on this Corporation.
TENTH:   A.   The
number of directors of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by or
pursuant to the Bylaws of the Corporation. At the 1986 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders of the Corporation, the directors shall be divided, with respect
to the terms for which they severally hold office, into three classes, as
nearly equal in number of directors as possible, as determined by the Board of
Directors, with the term of office of the first class to expire at the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held in 1987, the term of office of the second
class to expire at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held in 1988, and
the term of office of the third class to expire at the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held in 1989, with each class of directors to hold office
until their successors are duly elected and have qualified. At each Annual
Meeting of Stockholders following such initial classification and election
until the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, directors elected to succeed
those directors whose terms expire at such annual meeting, other than those
directors elected under particular circumstances by a separate class vote of
the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the common
stock, of a par value of $0.01 per share, of the Corporation (the “Common Stock”)
as to dividends or upon liquidation of the Corporation, shall be elected to
hold office for a term expiring at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in the
third year following the year of their election and until their successors are
duly elected and have qualified. When the number of directors is changed, any
newly created directorships or any decrease in directorships shall be so
apportioned among the classes as to make all classes as nearly equal in number
of directors as possible, as determined by the Board of Directors. The terms of
office of all directors who are in office immediately prior to the closing of
the polls for the election of directors at the 2007 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders of the Corporation shall expire at such time. At each Annual
Meeting of Stockholders beginning with the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
of the Corporation, the directors shall not be classified, and the directors
shall be elected annually and shall hold office for a term expiring at the next
Annual Meeting of Stockholders and until their respective successors shall have
been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of directors
constituting the Board 
G1-3 


of
Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director. The provisions of
this Paragraph are subject to the provisions of Paragraph D of this Article.
B.   Except as
may be provided in the terms of any class or series of stock having a
preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation of the
Corporation relating to the rights of the holders of such class or series to
elect, by separate class vote, additional directors, prior to the 2007 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders of the Corporation, no member of the Board of Directors
may be removed from office except for cause. Except as may be provided in the
terms of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock
as to dividends or upon liquidation of the Corporation relating to the rights
of the holders of such class or series to elect, by separate class vote,
additional directors, from and after the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of
the Corporation, any member of the Board of Directors may be removed from
office with or without cause.
C.   Subject to
the provisions of Paragraph D of this Article TENTH, newly created
directorships resulting from an increase in the number of directors of the
Corporation and vacancies occurring in the Board of Directors resulting from
death, resignation, retirement, removal, or any other reason shall be filled by
the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors, although less than a
quorum, then remaining in office and elected by the holders of the capital
stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of
directors or, in the event that there is only one such director, by such sole
remaining director. Prior to the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the
Corporation, any director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence
shall hold office for the full term of the class of directors in which the new
directorship was created or the vacancy occurred and until such director’s
successor shall have been elected and qualified.
D.   In the event
that the holders of any class or series of stock of the Corporation having a
preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation of the
Corporation are entitled, by a separate class vote, to elect directors pursuant
to the terms of such class or series, then the provisions of such class or
series with respect to such rights of election shall apply to the election of
such directors. The number of directors that may be elected by the holders of
any such class or series of stock shall be in addition to the number fixed by
or pursuant to the Bylaws. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the terms
of such class or series, the number of directors that may be so elected by the
holders of any such class or series of stock shall be elected for terms
expiring at the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders and without regard to any
classification of the remaining members of the Board of Directors, and
vacancies among directors so elected by the separate class vote of any such
class or series of stock shall be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority
of the remaining directors elected by such class or series, or, if there are no
such remaining directors, by the holders of such class or series in the same
manner in which such class or series initially elected a director.
If at any meeting for the election of directors, more
than one class of stock, voting separately as classes, shall be entitled to
elect one or more directors and there shall be a quorum of only one such class
of stock, that class of stock shall be entitled to elect its quota of directors
notwithstanding absence of a quorum of the other class or classes of stock.
ELEVENTH: Subject to any limitations imposed by this
Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors shall have power to adopt,
amend, or repeal the Bylaws of the Corporation. 
Any Bylaws made by the directors under the powers conferred hereby may
be amended or repealed by the directors or by the stockholders. Notwithstanding
the foregoing and any other provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation or
the Bylaws of this Corporation (and notwithstanding that a lesser percentage
may be specified by law), no provisions of the Bylaws shall be adopted,
amended, or repealed by the stockholders without an affirmative vote of the
holders of not less than eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all of the
outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote
generally in the election of directors, considered for the purposes of this
Article as a single class.
G1-4 


Notwithstanding the foregoing and any other provisions
of this Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws of the Corporation (and
notwithstanding that a lesser percentage may be specified by law), the
provisions of this Article ELEVENTH may not be amended or repealed unless such
action is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than
eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all of the outstanding shares of
capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of
directors, considered for purposes of this Article as a single class.
ELEVENTH: Intentionally omitted.
TWELFTH: No action
required to be taken or which may be taken at any annual or special meeting of
stockholders of the Corporation may be taken without a meeting, and the power
of stockholders to consent in writing, without a meeting, to the taking of any
action is specifically denied.
THIRTEENTH: A. In
addition to the requirements of the provisions of any series of preferred stock
which may be outstanding, and whether or not a vote of the stockholders is
otherwise required, the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than eighty
percent (80%) of the outstanding shares of the Common Stock shall be required
for the approval or authorization of any Business Transaction with a Related
Person, or any Business Transaction in which a Related Person has an interest
(other than only a proportionate interest as a stockholder of the Corporation);
provided, however, that the eighty percent (80%) voting requirement shall not
be applicable if (1) the Business Transaction is Duly Approved by the
Continuing Directors, or (2) all of the following conditions are satisfied:
(a)   the
Business Transaction is a merger or consolidation or sale of substantially all
of the assets of the Corporation, and the aggregate amount of cash to be
received per share (on the date of effectiveness of such merger or
consolidation or on the date of distribution to stockholders of the Corporation
of the proceeds from such sale of assets) by holders of Common Stock of the
Corporation (other than such Related Person) in connection with such Business
Transaction is at least equal in value to such Related Person's Highest Common
Stock Purchase Price; and
(b)   after such
Related Person has become the Beneficial Owner of not less than ten percent
(10%) of the voting power of the Voting Stock and prior to the consummation of
such Business Transaction, such Related Person shall not have become the
Beneficial Owner of any additional shares of Voting Stock or securities
convertible into Voting Stock, except (i) as a part of the transaction which
resulted in such Related Person becoming the Beneficial Owner of not less than
ten percent (10%) of the voting power of the Voting Stock or (ii) as a result
of a pro rata stock dividend or stock split; and
(c)   prior to
the consummation of such Business Transaction, such Related Person shall not
have, directly or indirectly, (i) received the benefit (other than only a
proportionate benefit as a stockholder of the Corporation) of any loans,
advances, guarantees, pledges, or other financial assistance or tax credits
provided by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) caused any
material change in the Corporation's business or equity capital structure,
including, without limitation, the issuance of shares of capital stock of the
Corporation, or (iii) except as Duly Approved by the Continuing Directors,
caused the Corporation to fail to declare and pay (y) at the regular date
therefor any full quarterly dividends on any outstanding preferred stock or (z)
quarterly cash dividends on the outstanding Common Stock on a per share basis
at least equal to the cash dividends being paid thereon by the Corporation
immediately prior to the date on which the Related Person became a Related
Person.
G1-5 


B.   For the
purpose of this Article THIRTEENTH:
1.    The term
"Business Transaction" shall mean (a) any merger or consolidation
involving the Corporation or a subsidiary of the Corporation, (b) any sale,
lease, exchange, transfer, or other disposition (in one transaction or a series
of related transactions), including, without limitation, a mortgage or any
other security device, of all or any Substantial Part of the assets either of
the Corporation or of a subsidiary of the Corporation, (c) any sale, lease,
exchange, transfer, or other disposition (in one transaction or a series of related
transactions) of all or any Substantial Part of the assets of an entity to the
Corporation or a subsidiary of the Corporation, (d) the issuance, sale,
exchange, transfer, or other disposition (in one transaction or a series of
related transactions) by the Corporation or a subsidiary of the Corporation of
any securities of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation, (e) any
recapitalization or reclassification of the securities of the Corporation
(including, without limitation, any reverse stock split) or other transaction
that would have the effect of increasing the voting power of a Related Person
or reducing the number of shares of each class of Voting Stock outstanding, (f)
any liquidation, spin-off, split-off, split-up, or dissolution of the
Corporation, and (g) any agreement, contract, or other arrangement providing
for any of the transactions described in this definition of Business
Transaction.
2.    The term
"Related Person" shall mean and include (a) any individual,
corporation, partnership, group, association, or other person or entity which,
together with its Affiliates and Associates, is the Beneficial Owner of not
less than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of the Voting Stock or was the
Beneficial Owner of not less than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of the
Voting Stock (i) at the time the definitive agreement providing for the
Business Transaction (including any amendment thereof) was entered into, (ii)
at the time a resolution approving the Business Transaction was adopted by the
Board of Directors of the Corporation, or (iii) as of the record date for the
determination of stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote on, or consent
to, the Business Transaction, and (b) any Affiliate or Associate of any such
individual, corporation, partnership, group, association, or other person or
entity; provided, however, and notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the
contrary, the term "Related Person" shall not include the
Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Corporation, any employee stock
ownership or other employee benefit plan of the Corporation or any wholly owned
subsidiary of the Corporation, or any trustee of, or fiduciary with respect to,
any such plan when acting in such capacity.
3.    The term
"Beneficial Owner" shall be defined by reference to Rule 13d-3 under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as in effect on May 13, 1986;
provided, however, that any individual, corporation, partnership, group,
association, or other person or entity which has the right to acquire any
Voting Stock at any time in the future, whether such right is contingent or
absolute, pursuant to any agreement, arrangement, or understanding or upon
exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, shall be
deemed the Beneficial Owner of such Voting Stock.
G1-6 


4.    The term
"Highest Common Stock Purchase Price" shall mean the highest amount
of consideration paid by such Related Person for a share of Common Stock of the
Corporation (including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes, and
soliciting dealers' fees) in the transaction which resulted in such Related
Person becoming a Related Person or within one year prior to the date such
Related Person became a Related Person, whichever is higher; provided, however,
that the Highest Common Stock Purchase Price shall be appropriately adjusted to
reflect the occurrence of any reclassification, recapitalization, stock split,
reverse stock split, or other similar corporate readjustment in the number of
outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation between the last date
upon which such Related Person paid the Highest Common Stock Purchase Price to
the effective date of the merger or consolidation or the date of distribution
to stockholders of the Corporation of the proceeds from the sale of
substantially all of the assets of the Corporation referred to in subparagraph
(2)(a) of Section A. of this Article THIRTEENTH.
5.    The term
"Substantial Part" shall mean more than five percent (5%) of the fair
market value of the total assets of the entity in question, as reflected on the
most recent consolidated balance sheet of such entity existing at the time the
stockholders of the Corporation would be required to approve or authorize the
Business Transaction involving the assets constituting any such Substantial
Part.
6.    The term
"Voting Stock" shall mean all outstanding shares of capital stock of
the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors,
considered for the purpose of this Article THIRTEENTH as one class.
7.    The term
"Continuing Director" shall mean a director who either was a member
of the Board of Directors of the Corporation on May 13, 1986 or who became a
director of the Corporation subsequent to such date and whose election, or
nomination for election by the Corporation's stockholders, was Duly Approved by
the Continuing Directors on the Board at the time of such nomination or
election, either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement
issued by the Corporation on behalf of the Board of Directors in which such
person is named as nominee for director, without due objection to such
nomination; provided, however, that in no event shall a director be considered
a "Continuing Director" if such director is a Related Person and the
Business Transaction to be voted upon is with such Related Person or is one in
which such Related Person has an interest (other than only a proportionate
interest as a stockholder of the Corporation).
8.    The term
"Duly Approved by the Continuing Directors" shall mean an action
approved by the vote of at least a majority of the Continuing Directors then on
the Board, except, if the votes of such Continuing Directors in favor of such
action would be insufficient to constitute an act of the Board of Directors if
a vote by all of its members were to have been taken, then such term shall mean
an action approved by the unanimous vote of the Continuing Directors then on
the Board so long as there are at least three Continuing Directors on the Board
at the time of such unanimous vote.
9.    The term
"Affiliate," used to indicate a relationship to a specified person,
shall mean a person that directly, or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with,
such specified person.
G1-7 


10.  The term
"Associate," used to indicate a relationship with a specified person,
shall mean (a) any corporation, partnership, or other organization of which
such specified person is an officer or partner, (b) any trust or other estate
in which such specified person has a substantial beneficial interest or as to
which such specified person serves as trustee or in a similar fiduciary
capacity, (c) any relative or spouse of such specified person, or any relative
of such spouse who has the same home as such specified person, or who is a
director or officer of the Corporation or any of its parents or subsidiaries,
and (d) any person who is a director, officer, or partner of such specified
person or of any corporation (other than the Corporation or any wholly owned
subsidiary of the Corporation), partnership or other entity which is an
Affiliate of such specified person.
C.   For the
purpose of this Article THIRTEENTH, so long as Continuing Directors constitute
at least a majority of the entire Board of Directors, the Board of Directors
shall have the power to make a good faith determination, on the basis of
information known to them, of: (1) the number of shares of Voting Stock of
which any person is the Beneficial Owner, (2) whether a person is a Related Person
or is an Affiliate or Associate of another, (3) whether a person has an
agreement, arrangement, or understanding with another as to the matters
referred to in the definition of Beneficial Owner herein, (4) whether the
assets subject to any Business Transaction constitute a Substantial Part, (5)
whether any Business Transaction is with a Related Person or is one in which a
Related Person has an interest (other than only a proportionate interest as a
stockholder of the Corporation), (6) whether a Related Person, has, directly or
indirectly, received any benefits or caused any of the changes or caused the
Corporation to fail to declare and pay any of the dividends referred to in
subparagraph (2) (c) of Section A. of this Article THIRTEENTH, and (7) such
other matters with respect to which a determination is required under this
Article THIRTEENTH; and such determination by the Board of Directors shall be
conclusive and binding for all purposes of this Article THIRTEENTH.
D.   Nothing
contained in this Article THIRTEENTH shall be construed to relieve any Related
Person of any fiduciary obligation imposed by law.
E.    The fact
that any Business Transaction complies with the provisions of Section A. of
this Article THIRTEENTH shall not be construed to impose any fiduciary duty,
obligation, or responsibility on the Board of Directors, or any member thereof,
to approve such Business Transaction or recommend its adoption or approval to
the stockholders of the Corporation.
F.    Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws of the
Corporation (and notwithstanding that a lesser percentage may be specified by
law), the provisions of this Article THIRTEENTH may not be repealed or amended
in any respect, unless such action is approved by the affirmative vote of the
holders of not less than eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding shares of the
Common Stock.
THIRTEENTH: 
Intentionally omitted.
FOURTEENTH: The liability of the Corporation's Directors
to the Corporation or its stockholders shall be eliminated to the fullest
extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as
the same exists or may be amended from time to time.  Any repeal or amendment of this Article FOURTEENTH
by the stockholders of the Corporation shall not adversely affect any right or
protection of a director existing at the time of such repeal or amendment.
G1-8




APPENDIX G-2
Certificate of
Amendment of the
Certificate of Incorporation of
3M Company
3M COMPANY, a
corporation duly organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of
the State of Delaware (the “Corporation”), does hereby certify that:
1.               The
Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation is hereby amended by deleting Article ELEVENTH
in its entirety and inserting the following in lieu thereof:
“ELEVENTH:  Intentionally omitted.”
2.               The
Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation is hereby amended by deleting Article THIRTEENTH
in its entirety and inserting the following in lieu thereof:
“THIRTEENTH:  Intentionally omitted.”
3.               The
foregoing amendments were duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242
of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be
executed by Gregg M. Larson, its Associate General Counsel and Secretary, on
this     day of May 2007.






3M COMPANY




 


By:


 




 


Name: Gregg M. Larson




 


Office: Associate General Counsel and Secretary



 
G-2




APPENDIX
H
3M EXECUTIVE ANNUAL
INCENTIVE PLAN
1.                Purposes.
The purposes of the 3M
Executive Annual Incentive Plan (the “Plan”) are to attract and retain highly
qualified individuals as executive officers of 3M; to focus their attention on
achieving certain business objectives established for 3M and its business
units; and to provide these individuals with incentive compensation that is
intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of
the Internal Revenue Code.
2.                Definitions.
(a)           “Adjusted
Net Income” means the net income of 3M as reported in the Consolidated
Statement of Income as adjusted to exclude special items.
(b)          “Committee”
means those members of the Compensation Committee of 3M’s Board of Directors
who qualify as outside directors for purposes of Section 162(m) of the
Internal Revenue Code.
(c)           “Named
Executive Officers” means those executive officers of 3M covered by the SEC’s
disclosure requirements for executive compensation in Item 402 of Regulation
S-K.
(d)          “Participant”
means an employee of 3M who is eligible to participate in this Plan pursuant to
Section 4 and whose participation in the Plan has been approved by the
Committee.
(e)           “Plan”
means this 3M Executive Annual Incentive Plan.
(f)               “Plan
Year” means the 12-month period ending on December 31.
(g)          “Retirement” means the
termination of a Participant’s employment with 3M after meeting the
requirements for retirement under any retirement plan of 3M (including, in the
United States, the 3M Employee Retirement Income Plan).
3.                Term
and Termination of the Plan.
This Plan shall become
effective on January 1, 2007, subject to approval by the affirmative vote
of the holders of a majority of the shares of outstanding common stock of 3M voting
at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, and it shall remain in effect until
it is terminated by the Committee.
4.                Participation.
The individuals eligible to
participate in this Plan shall be the Named Executive Officers of 3M, as well
as any other senior executives of 3M whose compensation is approved by the
Committee.
5.                Amounts
of Annual Incentive.
The maximum annual incentive
payable to any Named Executive Officer for any Plan Year shall be one-quarter
of one percent (0.25%) of the Adjusted Net Income for such Plan Year, while the
maximum annual incentive payable for any Plan Year to any Participant who is
not a Named Executive Officer shall be one-tenth of one percent (0.10%) of the
Adjusted Net Income for such Plan Year. Subject to these maximums, the
Committee shall determine the amount of each Participant’s annual incentive
opportunity for each Plan Year in its discretion. Notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in this Plan document, the Committee in its sole discretion may
decide to 
H-1 


reduce the annual incentive
payable to a Participant for any Plan Year below the applicable maximum amount
payable under this Section 5.
6.                Payments
of Annual Incentive.
All annual incentive payments
under this Plan shall be made in the form of cash or in the form of shares of
3M stock, restricted stock or restricted stock units delivered pursuant to the
3M Management Stock Ownership Program. All annual incentive payments for a Plan
Year shall be completed no later than March 15 of the year following the
end of such Plan Year; provided, however, that no payment shall be made under
this Plan until the Committee has certified in writing that: (a) the
performance goal for such Plan Year has been satisfied, and (b) the
limitations described in Section 5 have not been exceeded.
7.                Plan
Administration.
This Plan will be administered by the Committee, which
may delegate any of its administrative responsibilities in connection with the
Plan to the appropriate employees of 3M. The Committee will have full power and
authority to interpret the Plan, to establish, amend and rescind any rules,
forms or procedures as it deems necessary for the proper administration of the
Plan, to determine the manner and time of payment of the annual incentive
compensation payable hereunder, and to take any other action as it deems
necessary or advisable in connection with the Plan. Any decision made, action
taken or interpretation made by the Committee or its delegate that is not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Plan will be final, conclusive, and
binding on all persons interested in the Plan.
8.                Amendments.
The Committee may at any time
amend this Plan, in whole or in part; provided no amendment which would (a) increase
the maximum annual incentive payable to any Participant, or (b) revise the
performance goal available for determining the amount of the annual incentive
compensation payable hereunder, shall become effective until approved by the
affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of outstanding
common stock of 3M voting at a meeting of the corporation’s stockholders.
9.                Rights
of Participants.
Nothing in this Plan or the
fact that a person has received or become eligible to receive annual incentive
compensation hereunder shall be deemed to give such person any right to be
retained in the employ of 3M or to interfere with the right of 3M to discipline
or terminate the employment of such person at any time for any reason
whatsoever. No person shall have any claim or right to receive annual incentive
compensation under this Plan, except as provided in accordance with the
provisions of this Plan and as approved by the Committee. If a Participant’s
employment with 3M terminates for any reason other than death or Retirement,
participation in this Plan will end and any annual incentive compensation that
would otherwise have been payable to such Participant for the Plan Year in
which such termination occurs shall be forfeited.
10.         Withholding.
All payments of annual
incentive compensation made pursuant to this Plan will be subject to
withholding for all applicable taxes and contributions required by law to be
withheld therefrom.
H-2 


11.         No
Assignment.
No right or interest of a
Participant under this Plan shall be assignable or transferable, or subject to
the claims of any creditor or to any liens.
12.         Successors.
All obligations of 3M under this Plan with respect to
the payment of annual incentive compensation will be binding upon any successor
to 3M, regardless of the reason or circumstances for such succession (whether
by reason of merger, consolidation, or the purchase of substantially all of the
business and assets of 3M).
13.         Validity.
In the event any provision of
this Plan should be determined to be illegal or invalid for any reason, it
shall not affect the remaining provisions of the Plan which shall remain in
effect as if the illegal or invalid provision had never been included herein. If
any provision of this Plan would cause the annual incentive compensation
payable hereunder not to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section
162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, that provision will be deemed severed
from the Plan without affecting the remaining provisions of the Plan.
14.         Governing
Law.
The provisions of this Plan shall be governed by, and
interpreted and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of
Delaware.
H-3











Attendance Card


 


 


Attendance Card


 


 


 




 



Annual Meeting
  of Stockholders


 


 



Annual
  Meeting
  of Stockholders


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


May 8,
  2007
  RiverCentre
  175 West Kellogg Blvd.
  St. Paul, Minnesota


 


 


May 8, 2007
  RiverCentre
  175 West Kellogg Blvd.
  St. Paul, Minnesota


 


 


 




 


This is your ticket to the 2007 Annual Meeting.
  Please show it upon arrival. Annual Meeting activities begin at
  8:30 a.m. with product demonstrations and displays. The meeting starts
  at 10:00 a.m. After the meeting, lunch will be served and the 3M store
  will open.
The meeting will be held in
  the Roy Wilkins Auditorium. Hosts and hostesses will show you the way after
  you enter the RiverCentre.
Since
  parking space is limited, you are urged to consider carpooling or public
  transportation.


 


 


This is your ticket to the 2007 Annual Meeting.
  Please show it upon arrival. Annual Meeting activities begin at
  8:30 a.m. with product demonstrations and displays. The meeting starts
  at 10:00 a.m. After the meeting, lunch will be served and the 3M store
  will open.
The
  meeting will be held in the Roy Wilkins Auditorium. Hosts and hostesses will
  show you the way after you enter the RiverCentre.
Since
  parking space is limited, you are urged to consider carpooling or public
  transportation.


 





Recycled
  Paper
  40% Pre-consumer paper
  10% Post-consumer paper




 




3M Company
ANNUAL
MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS
Tuesday,
May 8, 2007
3M Center
St. Paul, Minnesota 55144
Receive
Future Proxy Materials Electronically
Help us make a difference by eliminating paper proxy
mailings to your home or business. With your consent, we will send all future
proxy voting materials to you by E-mail, along with a link to 3M’s proxy voting
site. To register for electronic delivery of future proxy materials, go to
www.econsent.com/mmm and follow the prompts.
[GRAPHIC]
3M
Company
3M Center
St. Paul, Minnesota 55144

proxy

The Board of Directors solicits
this proxy for use at the Annual Meeting on Tuesday, May 8, 2007.
The stockholder(s) whose
signature(s) appear(s) on the reverse side of this proxy card hereby
appoint(s) George W. Buckley, Vance D. Coffman, and Rozanne L. Ridgway or any
of them, each with full power of substitution, as proxies, to vote all shares
of common stock in 3M Company which the stockholder(s) would be entitled
to vote on all matters which may properly come before the 2007 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders and any adjournments thereof. THE PROXIES SHALL VOTE SUBJECT TO
THE DIRECTION INDICATED ON THE REVERSE SIDE OF THIS CARD. THE PROXIES ARE
AUTHORIZED TO VOTE IN THEIR DISCRETION UPON OTHER BUSINESS AS MAY PROPERLY COME
BEFORE THE MEETING AND ANY ADJOURNMENTS OR POSTPONEMENTS THEREOF. THE PROXIES
WILL VOTE AS THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS WHERE A CHOICE IS NOT SPECIFIED.
FOR PARTICIPANTS IN 3M’S
VOLUNTARY INVESTMENT PLAN AND EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN (VIP), AND THE 3M
SAVINGS PLAN:
In accordance with the terms of the VIP and Savings
Plan, shares allocated to my respective accounts in these plans on the record
date will be voted by the trustee, State Street Bank and Trust Company, in
accordance with the instructions indicated on the reverse side of this card,
and in accordance with the judgment of the trustee upon other business as may
properly come before the meeting and any adjournments or postponements thereof.
In addition, participants in the VIP may instruct State Street (as VIP trustee)
how to vote a proportionate number of both the 3M shares held by the VIP that
have not been allocated to accounts of participants and the allocated shares
for which no instructions are received. If no instructions are provided or if this
card is not received on or before May 3, 2007, shares held in my account
for the Savings Plan will be voted by the trustee as directed by any one of the
named proxies designated above. If no instructions are provided or if this card
is not received on or before May 3, 2007, shares held in my account for
the VIP will be voted by the trustee in the same proportion that the other
participants in the VIP direct the trustee to vote shares in their VIP
accounts.
(Continued, and must be signed and dated on the other
side)



COMPANY #
VOTING
INSTRUCTIONS:
THERE ARE THREE WAYS TO VOTE YOUR PROXY
VOTE BY INTERNET — www.eproxy.com/mmm/
— Quick *** Easy *** Immediate
·                  Use
the Internet to vote your proxy 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, until
12:00 p.m. (CT) on May 7, 2007.
·                  Please
have your proxy card and the last four digits of your Social Security Number or
Tax Identification Number available. Follow the simple instructions to obtain
your records and create an electronic ballot.
VOTE BY TELEPHONE — 1-800-560-1965
— Quick *** Easy *** Immediate
·                  Use
any touch-tone telephone to vote your proxy 24 hours a day, 7 days a week,
until 12:00 p.m. (CT) on May 7, 2007.
·                  Please
have your proxy card and the last four digits of your Social Security Number or
Tax Identification Number available. Follow the simple instructions the voice
provides you.
VOTE BY MAIL
Mark, sign, and date your proxy card and return it in the postage-paid
envelope provided so that it is received by May 7, 2007 (by May 3, 2007, for
participants in 3M’s Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership
Plan and the 3M Savings Plan).
Your Internet or telephone vote authorizes the
named proxies to vote your shares in the same manner as if you marked, signed,
and returned your proxy card. The deadline for Internet or telephone voting is
12:00 p.m. (Central Time) on May 7, 2007 (by
May 3, 2007, for participants in 3M’s Voluntary Investment Plan and
Employee Stock Ownership Plan and the 3M Savings Plan).
If you vote your shares on the Internet or by
telephone, you do not need to mail back the proxy card.
YOUR VOTE IS IMPORTANT. THANK YOU
FOR VOTING.
The Board of Directors Recommends
a Vote “FOR” all Nominees:



1.  Election of Directors


 


01  Linda G. Alvarado 
  02 George W. Buckley 
  03 Vance D. Coffman 
  04 Michael L. Eskew 
  05 W. James Farrell


 


06 Herbert L. Henkel
  07 Edward M. Liddy 
  08 Robert S. Morrison 
  09 Aulana L. Peters 
  10 Rozanne L. Ridgway


 


o
  Vote FOR all nominees (except as noted below)


 


o
  Vote WITHHELD from all nominees



 



To withhold authority to
  vote for any nominee, write the number(s) of the nominee(s) in the box
  provided to the right.


 



Please fold here
The Board
of Directors Recommends a Vote “FOR” Items 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6:



2.


 


Ratification of the Appointment of
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 3M’s Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm


 


o For


 


o Against


 


o Abstain




3.


 


Amendment of the Company’s Restated Certificate of
  Incorporation to Eliminate the Supermajority Vote Requirements


 


o For


 


o Against


 


o Abstain




4.


 


Amendment of the Company’s Restated Certificate of
  Incorporation to Eliminate the Fair Price Provision


 


o For


 


o Against


 


o Abstain




5.


 


Approval of the Executive Annual Incentive Plan


 


o For


 


o Against


 


o Abstain




6.


 


Approval of the Material Terms of the Performance
  Criteria Under the Performance Unit Plan


 


o For


 


o Against


 


o Abstain



The Board
of Directors Recommends a Vote “AGAINST” the Stockholder Proposal in Item 7:



7.


 


Executive Compensation based on the Performance of Peer Companies


 


o For


 


o Against


 


o Abstain



In their discretion, to vote upon other matters
properly coming before the meeting.
THIS
PROXY, WHEN PROPERLY EXECUTED, WILL BE VOTED AS DIRECTED. IF NO DIRECTION IS
GIVEN, IT WILL BE VOTED “FOR” ALL NOMINEES AND “FOR” ITEMS 2, 3, 4, 5, AND 6,
AND “AGAINST” ITEM 7.
Address
Change? Mark Box o    Indicate changes below:






Date




 


 




 


 




 


Signature(s) in
  Box




 


Please sign
  exactly as your name(s) appears on Proxy. If held in joint tenancy, all
  persons should sign. Trustees, administrators, etc., should include title and
  authority. Corporations should provide full name of corporation and title of
  authorized officer signing the proxy.



 




