
DEF 14A
1
mmm040569s3_def14a.htm

3M Definitive Proxy Statement

 

SCHEDULE 14A INFORMATION 
 
Proxy Statement Pursuant to
Section 14(a) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (Amendment
No.      ) 
 
Filed by the Registrant    [X]

 
Filed by a Party other than the
Registrant    [_] 
 
Check the appropriate box: 
 


[_]
 
Preliminary Proxy Statement 
 


[_]
 
Confidential, for Use of the Commission Only (as permitted by Rule
      14A-6(E)(2)) 
 


[X]
 
Definitive Proxy Statement 
 


[_]
 
Definitive Additional Materials 
 


[_]
 
Soliciting Material Pursuant to Section 240.14a-11(c) or Section
      240.14a-12 
 
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company

(Name of Registrant as Specified In
Its Charter) 
 
N/A

(Name of Person(s) Filing Proxy Statement, if other than
the Registrant) 
 
Payment of Filing Fee (Check the appropriate box):

 


[X]
 
No fee required 
 


[_]
 
Fee computed on table below per Exchange Act Rules 14a-6(i)(4) and
      0-11. 
 


 
(1)
 
Title of each class of securities to which transaction applies:
      
 


 
(2)
 
Aggregate number of securities to which transaction applies:
    
 


 
(3)
 
Per unit price or other underlying value of transaction computed
      pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0-11 (Set forth the amount on which the
      filing fee is calculated and state how it was determined):
  
 


 
(4)
 
Proposed maximum aggregate value of transaction:
  
 


 
(5)
 
Total fee paid: 
 


[_]
 
Fee paid previously with preliminary materials.
  
 


 
[_]
 
Check box if any part of the fee is offset as provided by Exchange
      Act Rule 0-11(a)(2) and identify the filing for which the offsetting fee
      was paid previously. Identify the previous filing by registration
      statement number, or the Form or Schedule and the date of its filing.
      
 


 
(1)
 
Amount Previously Paid: 
 


 
(2)
 
Form, Schedule or Registration Statement No.:

 


 
(3)
 
Filing Party: 
 


 
(4)
 
Date Filed: 
 






W. James McNerney, Jr.Chairman of the Boardand
Chief Executive Officer   

March 29, 2004 

Dear Stockholder: 
        I am pleased to invite you to attend 3M’s Annual Meeting of
Stockholders, which will be held on Tuesday, May 11, 2004, at
10 a.m., at the RiverCentre, 175 West Kellogg Boulevard, St. Paul,
Minnesota. Details regarding admission to the meeting and the business
to be conducted are more fully described in the accompanying Notice of
Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement. I will report on Company operations
and discuss our plans for growth. We also will leave time for your
questions and comments. 
        The fine attendance of our stockholders at Annual Meetings over the
years has been very helpful in maintaining good communications and
understanding. We sincerely hope you will be able to be with us.
Your attendance cards to the Annual Meeting are located on the
back cover of this proxy statement. 
        Your vote is important. Whether or not you plan to attend the Annual
Meeting, I hope you will vote as soon as possible. You may vote on the
Internet, by telephone, or by completing and mailing a traditional
proxy card. Please review the instructions on the proxy card regarding
each of these voting options. 
        Thank you for your ongoing support of 3M. 
Sincerely, 














2004 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS  

NOTICE OF ANNUAL MEETING AND PROXY STATEMENT  

TABLE OF CONTENTS  





Notice of Annual Meeting of Stockholders 
iii


Proxy Statement 
1 


      Purpose of the Annual Meeting 
1 


      Annual Meeting
Admission 
1 


      Quorum 
1 


      Stockholders Entitled to Vote 
1 


      Proposals You Are Asked to Vote On and the Board’s Voting
Recommendations 
2 


      Required Vote 
2 


      Voting Methods 
3 


      Changing Your Vote 
3 


      Counting the Vote 
3 


      Confidentiality 
4 


      Results of the Vote 
4 


      Delivery of
Proxy Materials 
4 


      List of Stockholders 
4 


      Electronic
Delivery of Proxy Materials and Annual Report 
4 


      Cost of Proxy
Solicitation 
5 


      Transfer Agent 
5 


Governance of
the Company 
6 


      Corporate Governance Guidelines 
6 


      Presiding Director 
6 


      Communication with Directors 
6 


      Director Independence 
6 


      3M Business Conduct Policies 
7 


Board Structure and Committee Membership 
8 


      Audit Committee 
8 


      Compensation Committee 
9 


      Nominating
and Governance Committee 
9 


      Public Issues Committee 
10 


Nomination Process 
10 


      Role of the Nominating
and Governance Committee 
10 


       Nominees Proposed by Stockholders
for Consideration by the Committee 
10 


      Stockholder Nominations 
11 







i 







      Director Qualifications 
  
  
  
11 
  


       Identification, Evaluation, and
Selection of Nominees 
  
  
  
12 
  


Director Compensation and
Stock Ownership Guidelines 
  
  
  
12 
  


Director
Attendance at Annual Meetings of Stockholders 
  
  
  
12 
  


Proposals To Be Voted On 
  
  
  
13 
  


      Proposal No. 1
— Election of Directors 
  
  
  
13 
  


      Proposal No. 2 — Ratification of
Independent Auditors 
  
  
  
16 
  


      Proposal No. 3 — Proposal to Approve an
Amendment to the Certificate of            Incorporation to Increase the Authorized Common Stock 
  
  
  
16 
  


      Proposal No. 4 — Stockholder
Proposal 
  
  
  
17 
  


Common Stock Ownership of Directors and
Executive Officers 
  
  
  
20 
  


      Beneficial Ownership Table 
  
  
  
20 
  


 Security Ownership of More Than 5 Percent
Stockholders  
  
  
  
21 
  


Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance 
  
  
  
22 
  


Executive Compensation 
  
  
  
22 
  


      Summary Compensation Table 
  
  
  
22 
  


      Option Grants in Last Fiscal
Year 
  
  
  
24 
  


      Aggregated Option Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and
Fiscal Year-End Option Values 
  
  
  
25 
  


      Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards
Table 
  
  
  
25 
  


      Employment Contracts, Termination of Employment, and
Change-in-Control            Arrangements 
  
  
  
26 
  


      Retirement Benefits 
  
  
  
29 
  


Compensation Committee Report
on Executive Compensation 
  
  
  
31 
  


Compensation Committee
Interlocks and Insider Participation 
  
  
  
34 
  


Audit
Committee Report 
  
  
  
34 
  


Audit Committee Policy on
Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services      of Independent Auditors 
  
  
  
35 
  


Independent Auditor’s
Fees 
  
  
  
35 
  


Stock Performance Graph 
  
  
  
37 
  


 Requirements for Submission of
Stockholder Proposals for
Next Year’s Annual Meeting  
  
  
  
38 
  


Appendix A — Corporate
Governance Guidelines 
  
  
  
A-1 
  


Appendix B — Audit Committee
Charter 
  
  
  
B-1 
  


Appendix C — Compensation Committee
Charter 
  
  
  
C-1 
  


Appendix D — Nominating and Governance
Committee Charter 
  
  
  
D-1 
  


Appendix E — Public Issues Committee
Charter 
  
  
  
E-1 
  






ii 









3M Company
3M Center, St. Paul, Minnesota 55144  

NOTICE OF ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS  





TIME AND DATE
10:00 a.m. on Tuesday, May 11, 2004
 

PLACE
RiverCentre175 West Kellogg BoulevardSt. Paul, Minnesota
 

ITEMS OF BUSINESS

(1)    To elect directors to a 3-year term.
(2)    To ratify the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 3M’s
         independent auditors.
(3)    To approve an amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation to
         increase the authorized common stock.
(4)    To vote on one stockholder proposal if properly presented at the meeting.
(5)    To transact such other business as may properly come before the
         Annual Meeting and any adjournment or postponement.
 

RECORD DATE
You are entitled to vote if you were a stockholder of record at the close of business on Friday, March 12, 2004.
 

ANNUAL REPORT
Our 2003 Annual Report, which is not part of the proxy soliciting materials, is enclosed.
 

MEETING ADMISSION
Two cutout admission tickets are included on the back cover of this proxy statement.
 

PROXY VOTING 
Please submit a
proxy as soon as possible so that your shares can be voted at the meeting in
accordance with your instructions. You may submit your proxy(1)    Over the
Internet,(2)    By telephone, or(3)    By mail.

For specific instructions, please refer to the section entitled "Voting Methods" on page 3 of this proxy statement
and the voting instructions on the proxy card.








By
Order of the Board of Directors 

 

GREGG
M. LARSON Assistant General Counsel
and Secretary  

THIS PROXY STATEMENT AND PROXY CARD ARE BEING DISTRIBUTED ON OR ABOUT MARCH 29, 2004. 


iii 










PROXY STATEMENT 
        The Board of Directors (the “Board”) of 3M Company (“3M” or the
“Company”) is soliciting proxies for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders. You are receiving a proxy statement because you own
shares of 3M common stock that entitle you to vote at the meeting. By
use of a proxy, you can vote whether or not you attend the meeting. The
proxy statement describes the matters we would like you to vote on and
provides information on those matters so you can make an informed
decision. 
        The information included in this proxy statement relates to proposals
to be voted on at the meeting (if properly presented), voting process,
compensation of directors and our most highly paid officers, and other
required information. 
Purpose of the Annual Meeting 
        The purpose of the Annual Meeting is to elect directors and to conduct
the business described in the Notice of Annual Meeting. 
Annual Meeting Admission 
        Only stockholders are invited to attend the meeting. An admission
ticket or proof of ownership of 3M stock, along with personal
identification, must be presented in order to be admitted to the Annual
Meeting. If you are a
stockholder of record,
your admission ticket is on the back of this proxy statement. If your
shares are held in the name of a bank, broker or other holder of
record, you must bring a brokerage statement or other proof of
ownership with you to the Annual Meeting, or obtain an admission ticket
in advance. Tickets are also available on the Internet voting site —
www.eproxy.com/mmm. 
        No cameras, recording equipment, electronic devices, large bags,
briefcases, or packages will be permitted in the Annual Meeting. 
Quorum 
        A quorum is the minimum number of shares required to hold a meeting.
Under 3M’s Bylaws, a quorum requires a majority of the outstanding
shares of stock entitled to vote at the meeting must be represented in
person or by proxy at the meeting. Both abstentions and broker
non-votes are counted as present for determining the presence of a
quorum. Broker non-votes, however, are not counted as shares present
and entitled to be voted with respect to the matter on which the broker
has not voted. Thus, broker non-votes will not affect the outcome of
any of the matters to be voted on at the Annual Meeting. Generally,
broker non-votes occur when shares held by a broker for a beneficial
owner are not voted with respect to a particular proposal because (1)
the broker has not received voting instructions from the beneficial
owner and (2) the broker lacks discretionary voting power to vote such
shares. 
Stockholders Entitled to Vote 
        Each share of our common stock outstanding as of the close of business
on March 12, 2004, the record date, is entitled to one vote
at the Annual Meeting on each matter properly brought before the
meeting. As of that date, there were
782,963,687 shares of
common stock issued and outstanding. 
        Most 3M stockholders hold their shares through a stockbroker, bank,
trustee, or other nominee rather than directly in their own name. As
summarized below, there are some distinctions between shares held of
record and those owned beneficially: 




  
• 
STOCKHOLDER OF RECORD — If your shares are registered
directly in your name with 3M’s Transfer Agent, Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A., you are considered the stockholder of record of those shares and
these proxy materials are being sent directly to you by 3M. As the
stockholder of record, you have the right to grant your voting proxy
directly to 3M or to vote in person at the meeting.  


  
• 
BENEFICIAL OWNER — If your shares are held in a stock
brokerage account, by a bank, trustee, or other nominee, you are
considered the beneficial owner of shares held in street name and these
proxy materials are being forwarded to you by your broker, trustee, or
nominee who is considered the stockholder of record of those shares. As
the beneficial owner, you have the right to direct your broker, trustee
or nominee on how to vote and are also invited to attend 









1 









  

the meeting. However, since you are not the stockholder of record, you
may not vote these shares in person at the meeting. Your broker,
trustee, or nominee is obligated to provide you with a voting
instruction card for you to use. 


  
• 
If your shares are held in your account in the 3M Voluntary
Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M Savings
Plan, you are considered the beneficial owner of these shares and the
trustee of the plans is the stockholder of record. Participants in
3M’s Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or
the 3M Savings Plan may direct the trustee how to vote the shares
allocated to their account by following the voting instructions
contained on the proxy card. Participants in 3M’s Voluntary Investment
Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan may also direct the trustee how
to vote a proportionate number of allocated shares of common stock for
which it has not received direction, and shares not allocated to
individual participant accounts by following the same voting
instructions. If you fail to direct the trustee how to vote your shares
by following these voting instructions, the trustee will vote your
shares as described in the voting instructions.  





Proposals You Are Asked to Vote On and the Board’s Voting
Recommendations 
        The following proposals are scheduled to be voted on at the meeting.
3M’s Board recommends that you vote your shares as indicated below. 




Proposals: 
The Board’s Voting Recommendation: 

 1. The election of directors for a 3-year term
“FOR”each nomineeto the Board

 2. The ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers
     LLP as 3M’s independent auditors
“FOR”

 3. Proposal to Approve an Amendment to the Certificate of
     Incorporation to Increase the Authorized Common Stock
“FOR”

 4. Consideration of a stockholder proposal to separate the positions      of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, if it is      properly presented at the meeting.
“AGAINST”




        Other than the proposals described in this proxy
statement, the Board is not aware of any other matters to be presented
for a vote at the Annual Meeting. If you grant a proxy by telephone,
Internet, or by signing and returning your proxy card, any of the
persons named as proxy holders — W. James McNerney, Jr., 3M’s
Chairman and CEO, Edward A. Brennan, and Rozanne L. Ridgway — will
have the discretion to vote your shares on any additional matters
properly presented for a vote at the meeting. If any of our nominees is
unavailable as a candidate for director, the above-named proxy holders
will vote your proxy for another candidate or candidates as may be
nominated by the Board of Directors. 
Required Vote 
        Director Nominees — The nominees for election as directors at the
Annual Meeting will be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at the
meeting. This means that the director nominee with the most votes for a
particular slot is elected for that slot. Votes withheld from one or
more director nominees will have no effect on the election of any
director from whom votes are withheld. 
        Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation — The affirmative “FOR”
vote by the holders of a majority of the outstanding common stock
entitled to vote is required to approve the amendment to the Company’s
Certificate of Incorporation. Since stockholder approval is dependent
upon receipt of the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of
the outstanding common stock, any abstention, broker non-vote or other
failure to cast an affirmative vote for this proposal will have the
effect of a vote against this proposal. 
        Except as noted above, all other proposals require the affirmative
“FOR” vote of a majority of those shares present in person or
represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the matter.
If 







2 













you are a beneficial owner and do not provide the stockholder of record
with voting instructions, your shares may constitute broker non-votes,
as described in the section above entitled “Quorum.” In tabulating
the voting result for any particular proposal, shares that constitute
broker non-votes are not considered entitled to vote on that proposal.
The stockholder proposal is presented as a request to the Board to take
action. Affirmative votes for this proposal will inform the Board about
the level of interest in this proposal. 
Voting Methods 
        If you hold shares directly as the stockholder of record, you may vote
by granting a proxy or, if you hold shares beneficially in street name,
by submitting voting instructions to your broker or nominee. If you own
shares beneficially as a participant in the 3M Voluntary Investment
Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M Savings Plan, you may
vote by submitting voting instructions to the trustee. In most
instances, you will be able to do this over the Internet, by telephone,
or by mail. Please refer to the summary instructions below and those
included on your proxy card or, for shares held in street name, the
voting instruction card included by your broker or nominee. 

        The Internet and telephone voting procedures are designed to
authenticate stockholders by use of a control number and to allow you
to confirm that your instructions have been properly recorded. If you
vote by telephone or on the Internet, you do not need to return your
proxy card. Telephone and Internet voting facilities for
stockholders of record
will be available 24 hours a day, and will close at
12:00 p.m.
(Central
Time) on the day before the
Annual Meeting. Participants in 3M’s Voluntary Investment Plan and
Employee Stock Ownership Plan and the 3M Savings Plan may instruct the
trustee how to vote their shares via the Internet, by telephone, or by
signing and returning the proxy card by 5:00 p.m. (Central Time) on
May 6, 2004. 



  
• 
 VOTE BY INTERNET — www.eproxy.com/mmm — If
you have Internet access, you may submit your proxy from any location
in the world 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Have your proxy card and
the last four digits of your social security number in hand when you
access the Web site. You will be prompted to enter the last four digits
of your social security number, your 3-digit company number, and the
7-digit number located below the company number (the last two numbers
are located in the upper right corner of the proxy card) to create an
electronic ballot.  


  
• 
 VOTE BY TELEPHONE — 1-800-560-1965 — If you live in the
United States, you may use any touch-tone telephone to vote your proxy
toll-free 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Have your proxy card and the
last four digits of your social security number in hand when you call.
You will be prompted to enter the last four digits of your social
security number, your 3-digit company
number, and the 7-digit number located below
the company number (the last two numbers are located in the upper right
corner of the proxy card). Follow the recorded
instructions.  


  
• 
VOTE BY MAIL — You may do this by signing your proxy card or,
for shares held in street name, the voting instruction card included by
your broker or nominee and mailing it in the enclosed, postage-paid,
addressed envelope. If you provide specific voting instructions, your
shares will be voted as you instruct. If you sign, but do not provide
instructions, your shares will be voted as the Board recommended. Mark,
sign, and date your proxy card and return it in the postage-paid
envelope provided so that it is received by May 10, 2004.  





        All shares that have been properly voted and not revoked will be voted
at the Annual Meeting. 
Changing Your Vote 
        You may change your proxy instructions at any time prior to the vote at
the Annual Meeting. For shares held directly in your name, you may
accomplish this by granting a new proxy or by voting in person at the
Annual Meeting. For shares held beneficially by you, you may change
your vote by submitting new voting instructions to your broker or
nominee. 
Counting the Vote 
        In the election of directors, you may vote “FOR” all of the
nominees or your vote may be “WITHHELD” from one or more of the
nominees. For the other proposals, you may vote “FOR,” 







3 










“AGAINST,” or “ABSTAIN.” If you “ABSTAIN,” it has the same
effect as a vote “AGAINST.” If you sign your proxy card or broker
voting instruction card with no further instructions, your shares will
be voted in accordance with the recommendations of the Board. Shares
held in your account in the 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee
Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M Savings Plan will be voted by the
trustee as described in
“Stockholders Entitled
to Vote” on page 1. 
        Representatives of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., 3M’s transfer agent, will
tabulate the votes and act as the inspectors of election. 
Confidentiality 
        The Company’s Board of Directors has a policy that all stockholder
proxies, ballots, and tabulations that identify stockholders are to be
maintained in confidence. No such document will be available for
examination, and the identity and vote of any stockholder will not be
disclosed, except as necessary to meet legal requirements and allow the
inspectors of election to certify the results of the stockholder vote.
The policy also provides that inspectors of election for stockholder
votes must be independent and cannot be employees of the Company.
Occasionally, stockholders provide written comments on their proxy card
that may be forwarded to 3M management. 
Results of the Vote 
        We will announce preliminary voting results at the meeting and publish
final results in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ending June 30, 2004. A news release with voting results will
be available on our Web site
www.3M.com/profile/pressbox/index.jhtml. 
Delivery of Proxy Materials 
        Securities and Exchange Commission rules now allow us to deliver a
single copy of an annual report and proxy statement to any household at
which two or more stockholders reside, if we believe the stockholders
are members of the same family. This rule benefits both you and the
Company. We believe it eliminates irritating duplicate mailings that
stockholders living at the same address receive and it reduces our
printing and mailing costs. This rule applies to any annual reports,
proxy statements, proxy statements combined with a prospectus, or
information statements. Each stockholder will continue to receive a
separate proxy card or voting instruction card. 
        Your household may have received a single set of proxy materials this
year. If you prefer to receive your own copy now or in future years,
please request a duplicate set by contacting our transfer agent, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. at 1-800-401-1952 (U.S.), 651-450-4064
(outside the U.S.),
www.wellsfargo.com/shareownerservices, or in writing to
161 North Concord Exchange, South St. Paul, MN 55075. 
        If a broker or other nominee holds your shares, you may continue to
receive some duplicate mailings. Certain brokers will eliminate
duplicate account mailings by allowing stockholders to consent to such
elimination, or through implied consent if a stockholder does not
request continuation of duplicate mailings. Since not all brokers and
nominees may offer stockholders the opportunity this year to eliminate
duplicate mailings, you may need to contact your broker or nominee
directly to discontinue duplicate mailings from your broker to your
household. 
List of Stockholders 
        The names of stockholders of record entitled to vote at the Annual
Meeting will be available at the Annual Meeting and for ten days prior
to the meeting for any purpose germane to the meeting, between the
hours of 7:45 a.m. and
4:30 p.m. (Central), at our principal
executive offices at 3M Center, St. Paul, Minnesota, by contacting the
Secretary of the Company. 
Electronic Delivery of Proxy Materials and Annual Report 
        We are able to distribute the Annual Report and
proxy
statement to 3M
stockholders in a fast and efficient manner via the Internet. This
reduces the amount of paper delivered to a stockholder’s address and
eliminates the cost of sending these documents by mail. Stockholders
may elect to view all future annual reports and proxy statements on the
Internet instead of receiving them by mail. If you choose to view these
materials online, you will continue to receive a proxy card in the
mail. You may make this election when voting your proxy this year:
simply follow the instructions to vote via the Internet or go 







4 











directly to www.econsent.com/mmm to register your
consent. Have your account number (found above your name and address on
your dividend check stub) and your
social
security
number (if you have one)
available. Your election to view proxy materials online continues until
you revoke it. Future proxy cards will contain the Internet Web site
address and instructions to view the materials. You will continue to
have the option to vote your shares by telephone, mail, or via the
Internet. 

Cost of Proxy Solicitation 
        3M will pay for the cost of preparing, assembling, printing, mailing,
and distributing these proxy materials. You will need to obtain your
own Internet access if you choose to access the proxy materials and/or
vote over the Internet. In addition to mailing these proxy materials,
the solicitation of proxies or votes may be made in person, by
telephone, or by electronic communication by our directors, officers,
and employees, who do not receive any additional compensation for these
solicitation activities. We have hired Georgeson Shareholder
Communications, Inc. to assist us in the distribution of proxy
materials and the solicitation of votes. We will pay Georgeson
Shareholder Communications, Inc. a fee of $15,000 plus expenses for
these services. We will also reimburse brokerage houses and other
custodians, nominees, and fiduciaries for their reasonable
out-of-pocket expenses for forwarding proxy and solicitation materials
to beneficial owners of stock. 
Transfer Agent 
        Our Transfer Agent is Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. All communications
concerning stockholders of
record accounts, including address changes, name changes, common stock
transfer requirements, and similar issues can be handled by contacting
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. at 1-800-401-1952 (U.S.), 651-450-4064 (outside
the U.S.), www.wellsfargo.com/shareownerservices, or in
writing, 161 North Concord Exchange, South St. Paul, MN 55075. 







5 










GOVERNANCE OF THE COMPANY 
Corporate Governance Guidelines 
        The Board has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines that, along with
the charters of the Board committees, provide the framework for the
governance of the Company. The Board’s Nominating and Governance
Committee is responsible for overseeing and reviewing the Guidelines at
least annually, and recommending any proposed changes to the Board for
approval. The Corporate Governance Guidelines are available on our Web
site at www.3M.com, under Investor Relations —
Corporate Governance. The Guidelines and charters of the Board
committees are also attached to this proxy statement as Appendices A-E. 
Presiding Director 
        Independent directors regularly meet in executive sessions without the
Chairman/CEO and may select a director to facilitate the meeting. The
chairs of the Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Governance, and
Public Issues Committees of the Board may chair executive sessions of
the independent directors at which the principal items to be considered
are within the scope of the committee chair’s authority. The Board
believes that this practice ensures leadership at all executive
sessions of the independent directors without needing to designate a
lead director. 
Communication with Directors 
        The Board of Directors has adopted the following process for
stockholders to send communications to
members of the Board. Stockholders may
communicate with the chairs of the Audit, Compensation, Nominating and
Governance, and Public Issues Committees of the Board, or with our
independent directors, by sending a letter to the following address: 3M
Company, c/o Corporate Secretary, 3M Center, Building
0220-13-W-39, St. Paul, MN 55144-1000. 
Director Independence 
        The Board of Directors believes in having a substantial majority of
independent directors on the 3M Board. Pursuant to the New
York Stock Exchange listing standards, the Board has adopted Director
Qualification Standards with respect to the determination of director
independence. In accordance with these Standards, the Board must
affirmatively determine that a director has no material relationship
with the Company (directly or as a partner, shareholder, or officer of
an organization that has a relationship with the Company) other than as
a director. The Standards specify the criteria by which the
independence of our directors will be determined, including strict
guidelines for directors and their immediate families with respect to
past employment or affiliation with the Company or its independent
auditor. The Standards also prohibit Audit Committee members from any
direct or indirect financial relationship with the Company, and
restrict commercial relationships of all directors with the Company.
Directors may not be given personal loans or extensions of credit by
the Company, and all directors are required to deal at arm’s length
with the Company and its subsidiaries, and to disclose any circumstance
that might be perceived as a conflict of interest. 
        To be considered “independent” for purposes of these Standards, a
director must be determined, by resolution of the Board, after due
deliberation, to have no material relationship with the Company other
than as a director. In each case, the Board shall broadly consider all
relevant facts and circumstances and shall apply the following
standards: 




   
1.  
   
In
no event will a director be considered independent if, within the preceding three years:
(i) a director was employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries; (ii) an immediate
family member was employed by the Company as an officer; (iii) a director received, or
whose immediate family member received, more than $100,000 per year in direct
compensation from 3M or a consolidated subsidiary (other than director fees); (iv) a
director was affiliated with or employed by, or whose immediate family member was
affiliated with or employed in a professional capacity by, a present or former internal
or external auditor of 3M; (v) a director who was employed, or whose immediate family
member was employed, as an executive officer of another company where any of 3M’s
present executives serve on that company’s compensation committee; or (vi) a
director was an executive officer or an employee, or whose immediate family member was an
executive officer, of a company that made payments to, or  








6 









   
   
   
received payments
from, 3M for property or services in an amount which, in any single fiscal year, exceeded
the greater of $1 million, or two percent of the director’s company’s
consolidated gross revenues.  


 


   
2.  
   
Audit
Committee members may not accept any consulting, advisory, or other compensatory fee from
3M, other than directors’fees. 


 


   
3.  
   
The
following commercial relationships will not be considered to be material relationships
that would impair a director’s independence: (i) if a 3M director is an executive
officer or employee of another company that does business with 3M and the annual sales
to, or purchases from, 3M are less than or equal to one percent of the annual
consolidated gross revenues of the company he or she serves as an executive officer; or
(ii) if a 3M director is an executive officer or employee of another company which is
indebted to 3M, or to which 3M is indebted, and the total amount of either company’s
indebtedness to the other is less than or equal to one percent of the total consolidated
assets of the company he or she serves as an executive officer.The Board will annually
review all commercial relationships of directors. Whether directors meet these
categorical independence tests will be reviewed annually and will be made public in the
proxy statement prior to their standing for re-election to the Board.  


 


   
4.  
   
For
relationships not covered by the guidelines in paragraph 3 above, the determination of
whether the relationship is material or not, and therefore whether the director would be
independent or not, shall be made by the directors who satisfy the independence
guidelines set forth in paragraphs 1 and 3 above. For example, if a director is the CEO
of a company that purchases products and services from 3M that are more than one percent
(but not more than two percent) of that Company’s annual revenues, the independent
directors could determine, after considering all of the relevant circumstances, whether
such a relationship was material or immaterial, and whether the director would therefore
be considered independent under the NYSE rules. The Company would explain in the next
proxy statement the basis for any Board determination that a relationship is immaterial
despite the fact that it does not meet the categorical standards of immateriality set
forth in paragraph 3 above.  


 


   
5.  
   
The
Company will not make any personal loans or extensions of credit to directors. All
directors are required to deal at arm’s length with the Company and its subsidiaries
and to disclose circumstances material to the director that might be perceived as a
conflict of interest.  






        The Board of Directors has determined that every director, with the
exception of the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, W.
James McNerney, Jr., is independent under these Standards. The Board
has also determined that no members of the Audit Committee received any
compensation from the Company other than directors’ fees. 
3M Business Conduct Policies 
        More than a century of operating with honesty and integrity has given
3M trust from our customers, credibility with our communities, and
dedication from our employees. All of our employees, including our
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Principal
Accounting Officer, are required to abide by 3M’s long-standing
business conduct policies to ensure that our business is conducted in a
consistently legal and ethical manner. These policies form the
foundation of a comprehensive process that includes compliance with
corporate policies and procedures and a companywide focus on
uncompromising honesty and integrity in every aspect of our operations.
Our business conduct policies cover many topics, including antitrust
and competition law, conflicts of interest, financial reporting,
protection of confidential information, and compliance with all laws
and regulations applicable to the conduct of our business. 
        Employees are required to report any conduct that they believe in good
faith to be an actual or apparent violation of the business conduct
policies. The Audit Committee has adopted procedures to receive,
retain, and treat complaints received regarding accounting, internal
accounting controls, or auditing matters, and to allow for the
confidential and anonymous submission by employees of concerns
regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters. 







7 










        The Board of Directors adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
for directors of the Company. This Code incorporates long-standing
principles of conduct the Company and the Board follow to ensure the
Company’s business and the activities of the Board are conducted with
integrity, adherence to the highest ethical standards, and in
compliance with the law. 
        The Company’s Business Conduct Policies for employees and the Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors are available on our Web site
at www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate
Governance. 
BOARD STRUCTURE AND COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP 
        The Board is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year
terms. The Board has eleven directors and the following four
Committees: Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Governance, and Public
Issues. The membership during 2003 and the function of each Committee
are described below. 
        During 2003, the Board of Directors held six regular and one telephonic
meetings. The Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Governance, and
Public Issues Committees held five, five, four, and three regularly
scheduled meetings, respectively, and both the Audit and Compensation
Committees held one telephonic meeting during 2003. All of our
directors attended all of the regularly scheduled and special
telephonic meetings of the Board and Board Committees on which they
served, except that one director was unable to attend a specially
scheduled telephonic meeting of a
Committee on which he
serves. 
        The Board and each
Committee conducted an
evaluation of their performance in 2003. 





Name of Director
Audit
Compensation
NominatingandGovernance
PublicIssues


 Non-Employee Directors 
 
 
 
 

 Linda G. Alvarado
X
 
 
X

 Edward A. Brennan
 
X*
X
 

 Vance D. Coffman
X
 
X
 

 Michael L. Eskew
X
 
 
X

 Edward M. Liddy
X*
 
X
 

 Robert S. Morrison
 
X
X
 

 Aulana L. Peters
X
 
 
X*

 Rozanne L. Ridgway
 
X
X*
 

 Kevin W. Sharer
 
X
 
X

 Louis W. Sullivan
 
X
 
X





X = Committee Member; * = Chair 
Audit Committee 
        The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight of the integrity
of the Company’s financial statements, compliance with legal and
regulatory requirements, the qualifications, independence, and
performance of the Company’s independent auditor, and the performance
of the Company’s internal auditing department. In addition, the
Committee: 



  
• 
Reviews the annual audited and quarterly consolidated
financial statements;  


  
• 
Reviews the Company’s financial reporting process and
disclosure and internal controls and procedures, including major issues
regarding accounting principles and financial statement presentation,
and critical accounting policies to be used in the consolidated
financial statements;  


  
• 
By delegation to the Chair, reviews earnings press releases
prior to issuance; 









8 









  
• 
Appoints, oversees, and approves compensation of the
independent auditor;  


  
• 
Reviews with the independent auditor the scope of the annual
audit, including fees and staffing, and approves all audit and
permitted non-audit services provided by the independent auditor;  


  
• 
Reviews findings and recommendations of the independent
auditor and management’s response to the recommendations of the
independent auditor;  


  
• 
Discusses policies with respect to risk assessment and risk
management, the Company’s major risk exposures, and the steps
management has taken to monitor and mitigate such exposures; and  


  
• 
Reviews compliance with the Company’s business conduct
policies.  





        The Board of Directors has determined that all Audit Committee members
are independent and financially literate and the Chair of the
Committee, Edward M. Liddy, has financial management expertise under
the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. In addition, Mr. Liddy qualifies as “audit committee financial expert” within
the meaning of SEC regulations. The Board has determined that service
on more than three other audit committees by Aulana Peters does not
impair her ability to serve effectively on the Company’s Audit
Committee because Mrs. Peters is retired and has the time to devote to
her responsibilities and has considerable expertise in audit committee
matters. The charter of the Audit Committee is available at
www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate
Governance — Committee Composition and attached as Appendix B to this
proxy statement. 
Compensation Committee 
        The Compensation Committee reviews the Company’s compensation
practices and policies, annually reviews and approves (subject to
ratification by the independent directors of the Board) the
compensation for the CEO, annually reviews and approves the
compensation for the other senior executives, evaluates CEO
performance, and annually prepares a report on executive compensation
for inclusion in the Company’s proxy statement. In addition, the
Committee: 



  
• 
Approves, subject to ratification by the independent directors
of the Board, employment agreements and severance arrangements for the
CEO, as appropriate;  


  
• 
Approves for the senior executives of the Company (other than
the CEO) employment agreements and severance arrangements, as
appropriate; and 


  
• 
Interprets and supervises the administration of the Company’s
stock and long-term incentive compensation programs, and determines the
employees who receive awards and the size of their awards under such
programs. 





        The Board of Directors has determined that all Compensation Committee
members are “independent” under the New York Stock Exchange listing
standards. The charter of the Compensation Committee is available at
www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate
Governance — Committee Composition and attached as Appendix C to this
proxy statement. 
Nominating and Governance Committee 
        The Nominating and Governance Committee establishes Board membership
criteria, assists the Board by identifying individuals qualified to
become Board members, recommends to the Board matters of corporate
governance, facilitates the annual review of the performance of the
Board and its Committees, and periodically reviews CEO and management
succession plans. In addition, the Committee: 



  
• 
Selects and recommends candidates to the Board of Directors to
be submitted for election at the Annual Meeting and candidates to fill
any vacancies on the Board, including stockholder nominees for director
(submitted in accordance with the Company’s Bylaws). The Committee
considers all candidates in light of the Board membership criteria
adopted by the Board of Directors; 


  
• 
Reviews and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors
concerning the composition and size of the Board and its Committees,
Board membership criteria, frequency of meetings, and directors’ fees; 









9 









  
• 
Reviews the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines at least
annually, and recommends any proposed changes to the Board for
approval;  


  
• 
Develops and recommends to the Board standards to be applied
in making determinations on the types of relationships that constitute
material relationships between the Company and a director for purposes
of determining director independence; 


  
• 
Develops and recommends to the Board for its approval an
annual self-assessment process of the Board and its Committees and
oversee the process; and 


  
• 
Reviews periodically with the Chairman/CEO succession plans
relating to positions held by elected corporate officers, and makes
recommendations to the Board with respect to the selection of
individuals to occupy these positions. 





        The Board of Directors has determined that all Nominating and
Governance Committee members are “independent” under the New York
Stock Exchange listing standards. The charter of the Nominating and
Governance Committee is available at www.3M.com under
Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — Committee Composition and
attached as Appendix D to this proxy statement. 
Public Issues Committee 
        The Public Issues Committee reviews public policy issues and trends
affecting the Company, reviews and advises with respect to the
Company’s environmental, health and safety programs and compliance,
human resources, the corporate contribution program and the 3M
Foundation, and reviews and approves the Company’s response to
stockholder proposals relating to public policy issues. In addition,
the Committee: 



  
• 
Monitors the Company’s corporate citizenship activities; and  


  
• 
Offers advice, insights, and makes recommendations regarding
policies, programs, actions, and procedures which will enable this
Company to continue to respond appropriately to its social
responsibilities and the public interest in its business affairs,
including such activities as those related to the environment, human
resources, labor, and community relations.  





        The Board of Directors has determined that all Public Issues Committee
members are “independent” under the New York Stock Exchange listing
standards. The charter of the Public Issues Committee is available at
www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate
Governance — Committee Composition and attached as Appendix E to this
proxy statement. 
NOMINATION PROCESS 
Role of the Nominating and Governance Committee 
        The Nominating and Governance Committee (“Committee”) identifies
individuals that the Committee believes are qualified to become Board
members in accordance with the Board Membership Criteria set forth
below, and recommends selected individuals to the Board for nomination
to stand for election at the next meeting of stockholders of the
Company in which directors will be elected. In the event there is a
vacancy on the Board between meetings of stockholders, the Committee
identifies individuals that the Committee believes are qualified to
become Board members in accordance with the Board Membership Criteria
set forth below, and recommends one or more of such individuals for
appointment to the Board. 
Nominees Proposed by Stockholders for Consideration by the Committee 

        The Committee has a policy to consider properly submitted stockholder
nominees for candidates for membership on the Board of Directors.
Stockholders proposing individuals for consideration by the Committee
must include at least the following information about the proposed
nominee: the proposed nominee’s name, age, business or residence
address, principal occupation or employment, and 







10 











whether such person has given written consent to being named in the
proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected.
Stockholders should send the required information about the nominee
to: 
      Corporate Secretary      3M Company      3M Center      Building
0220-13-W-39      St. Paul, MN
55144-1000. 
        In order for an individual proposed by a stockholder to be considered
by the Committee for recommendation as a Board nominee, the Corporate
Secretary must receive the proposal no later than 5 p.m. Central Time
on November 29, 2004. Such proposals must be sent via
registered, certified, or express mail (or other means that allows the
stockholder to determine when the proposal was received by the
Company). The Corporate Secretary will send properly submitted
stockholder proposed nominations to the Committee Chair for
consideration at a future Committee meeting. Individuals proposed by
stockholders in accordance with these procedures will receive the same
consideration that individuals identified to the Committee through
other means receive. 
Stockholder Nominations 
        In addition, 3M’s Bylaws permit stockholders to nominate directors at
an annual meeting of stockholders or at a special meeting at which
directors are to be elected in accordance with the notice of meeting.
Stockholders intending to nominate a person for election as a director
must comply with the requirements set forth in the Company’s Bylaws.
Our Bylaws require, among other things, that the Corporate Secretary
receive written notice from the record
stockholder no earlier
than January 11, 2005, and no later than February 10, 2005. The notice must contain the information required by the
Bylaws, a copy of which is available upon request to the Corporate
Secretary. Nominations received after February 10, 2005, will
not be acted upon at the Annual Meeting. 
Director Qualifications 
        The Committee periodically reviews with the Board the requisite skills
and characteristics of its members. 3M’s Corporate Governance
Guidelines contain Board Membership Criteria that apply to nominees for
a position on 3M’s Board. The Committee periodically reviews with the
Board the appropriate skills and characteristics required of Board
members given the current Board composition. It is the intent of the
Board that the Board, itself, will be a high performance organization
creating competitive advantage for the Company. To perform as such, the
Board will be comprised of individuals who have distinguished records
of leadership and success in their arena of activity and who will make
substantial contributions to Board operations and effectively represent
the interests of all stockholders. The Committee’s and the Board’s
assessment of Board candidates includes, but is not limited to,
consideration of: 



  
(i) 
Roles and contributions valuable to the business
community;  


  
(ii) 
Personal qualities of leadership, character, judgment,
and whether the candidate possesses and maintains throughout service on
the Board a reputation in the community at large of integrity, trust,
respect, competence, and adherence to the highest ethical standards;  


  
(iii) 
Relevant knowledge and diversity of background and
experience in such things as business, manufacturing, technology,
finance and accounting, marketing, international business, government,
and the like; or 


  
(iv) 
Whether the candidate is free of conflicts and has
the time required for preparation, participation, and attendance at all
meetings. 





        In addition to these minimum requirements, the Committee will also
evaluate whether the nominee’s skills are complementary to the
existing Board members’ skills, the Board’s needs for particular
expertise in fields such as business, manufacturing, technology,
financial, marketing, international, governmental, or other areas of
expertise, and assess the nominees’ impact on Board dynamics and
effectiveness. 







11 










 Identification, Evaluation, and Selection of Nominees 
        The Committee periodically reviews the appropriate size and composition
of the Board and anticipates future vacancies and needs of the Board.
In the event the Committee recommends an increase in the size of the
Board or a vacancy occurs, the Committee considers qualified nominees
from several sources, including current Board members, a director
search firm, and nominees recommended by stockholders and other
persons. 
        The Committee may from time to time retain a director search firm to
help the Committee identify qualified director nominees for
consideration by the Committee. 
        The Committee evaluates qualified director nominees at regular or
special Committee meetings against the current Board Membership
Criteria described above and reviews qualified director nominees with
the Board. The Committee and the Chairman of the Board interview
candidates that meet the Board Membership Criteria, and the Committee
selects nominees that best suit the Board’s current needs and
recommends one or more of such individuals for
election to the Board. 
DIRECTOR COMPENSATION AND STOCK OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES 
        The following table provides information on 3M’s compensation and
reimbursement practices during 2003 for nonemployee directors. 
        In August 2003, the Nominating and Governance Committee
recommended, and the Board approved, an increase in compensation for
nonemployee directors, which became effective August 11,
2003. In developing its recommendations, the Committee was guided by
the following goals: compensation should fairly pay directors for work
required in a company of 3M’s size and scope and compensation should
align directors’ interests with the long-term interests of
shareowners. The Board increased the annual retainer from $95,000 to
$150,000, and increased the additional retainer for committee chairs
from $5,500 to $7,000, but eliminated the board and committee meeting
fees. 





Previous 
Current 


Annual Director Retainer 
$95,000 
$150,000 


Minimum
Percentage of Annual Retainer to be paid in 3M Stock 
68.4% 
63% 


Board Meeting Attendance Fees per Meeting 
$1,800 
0 


Committee Meeting Attendance Fees per Meeting 
$1,200 
0 


Additional Retainer for Committee Chair 
$5,500 
$7,000 


Reimbursement for Expenses Attendant to Board Membership 
Yes 
Yes 





        Nonemployee directors received $95,000 of the total annual retainer of
$150,000 in common stock of the Company pursuant to the terms of the
Company’s 1992 Directors Stock Ownership Program. Nonemployee
directors may elect to defer payment of all or a portion of the
foregoing fees payable in cash through a deferred cash or common stock
equivalents account, and fees payable in stock through a deferred
common stock equivalents account. The nonemployee directors also may
elect to receive common stock of the Company at current fair market
value, in lieu of cash retainer. Information regarding accumulated
deferred stock is set forth in the section entitled “Common Stock
Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers.” Currently, 91 percent
of director compensation is paid in 3M stock. 
        Stock Ownership Guidelines — The Board also approved stock ownership
guidelines that provide that each director should attain over her or
his three-year term an investment position in 3M’s stock (including
deferred stock) equal to two times the annual retainer. All directors
currently meet these stock ownership guidelines, except one director
who has not completed his first three-year term. 
        Matching Gift Program — The nonemployee directors are eligible to
participate in the matching gift program on the same terms as 3M
employees. Under this program, 3M will match up to a total of $5,000 a
year in contributions by the director to institutions of higher
education or public broadcasting organizations approved by 3M. 
DIRECTOR ATTENDANCE AT ANNUAL MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS 
        The Company has a long-standing policy that directors are expected to
attend the Annual Meeting of Stockholders unless extenuating circumstances prevent them
from attending. All directors attended last year’s Annual Meeting of Stockholders.







12 










PROPOSALS TO BE VOTED ON 
PROPOSAL NO. 1ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
        The Board is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year
terms. Directors for each class are elected at the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders held in the year in which the term for their class
expires. 
        The terms of four directors will expire at the 2004 Annual Meeting.
Directors elected at the 2004 Annual Meeting will hold office for a
three-year term expiring at the Annual Meeting in 2007 (or until their
respective successors are elected and qualified, or until their earlier
death, resignation, or removal). There are no family relationships
among the Company’s executive officers and directors. 
        The persons named as proxies intend to vote the proxies for the
election of the nominees to the Board of Directors. If any of the
nominees should be unavailable to serve as a director, an event which
is not anticipated, the persons named as proxies reserve full
discretion to vote for any other persons who may be nominated. 
Nominees for Terms to Expire at the 2007 Annual
Meeting: 




  

Edward A. Brennan, 70, Executive Chairman of
AMR Corporation, parent company of American Airlines, since 2003.
Retired Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer,
Sears, Roebuck and Co., a merchandising company. Mr. Brennan
retired from Sears in 1995. Mr. Brennan is on the boards of
the following public companies in addition to 3M and AMR Corporation:
The Allstate Corporation, Exelon Corporation, and McDonald’s
Corporation. He is also affiliated with certain non-profit
organizations, including as Chairman of the Board of Trustees of
Rush-University Medical Center, and a member of The Business Council.
Director since 1986. 


  

Michael L. Eskew, 54, Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer, United Parcel Service, Inc., since 2002.
Mr. Eskew was appointed Executive Vice President in 1999
and Vice Chairman in 2000 before becoming Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer in January 2002. He is also affiliated with certain non-profit
organizations, including as trustee of the Annie E. Casey Foundation
and serves on the U.S.-China Business Council and the Business
Roundtable. 
Director since 2003. 


 
 W. James McNerney, Jr., 54, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since 2001. Before joining 3M in
2001, Mr. McNerney was President and Chief Executive Officer,
GE Aircraft Engines from 1997-2000; and served in numerous executive
capacities at General Electric Company from 1982 to 1997. Mr. McNerney is on the boards of the following public companies in
addition to 3M: The Boeing Company and the Procter & Gamble Company. He
is also affiliated with certain non-profit organizations, including as
director of the Greater Twin Cities United Way, member of the Board of
Trustees of Northwestern University, the World Business Council for
Sustainable Development, the Business Roundtable, and The Business
Council. 
Director since 2001. 





13 









  

Kevin W. Sharer, 56, Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer, Amgen Inc., a biotechnology company, since
2000. Mr. Sharer joined Amgen in 1992 as its President
and Chief Operating Officer and served in that capacity until elected
Amgen’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 2000. Mr. Sharer is on the boards of the following public companies in
addition to 3M and Amgen: Unocal Corporation and Northrop Grumman
Corporation. 
Director since 2001. 



        The Board of Directors recommends a vote “FOR” the
election to the Board of each of the foregoing nominees. Proxies
solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted “FOR” each of the
nominees unless a contrary vote is specified. 
        The Company’s directors listed below whose terms are
not expiring this year will continue in office for the remainder of
their terms or earlier in accordance with the Company’s Bylaws.
Information regarding the business experience of the incumbent
directors is provided below. 
Directors Whose Terms Expire at the 2005 Annual
Meeting: 




  

Vance D. Coffman, 59, Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer, Lockheed Martin Corporation, a high technology
aerospace and defense company, since 1998. Dr. Coffman
served in various executive capacities at Lockheed Martin Corporation
before becoming Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Dr.
Coffman is on the board of the following public company in
addition to 3M and Lockheed Martin Corporation: Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company. He is also affiliated with certain non-profit organizations,
including as a director of the Atlantic Council of the United States
and member of the Business Roundtable. 
Director since 2002. 


  

Rozanne L. Ridgway, 68, Former
Assistant Secretary of State for Europe and Canada. Ambassador
Ridgway served in the U.S. Foreign Service from 1957 to 1989, including
assignments as Ambassador for Oceans and Fisheries Affairs, Ambassador
to Finland and to the German Democratic Republic, and from 1985 and
until her retirement in 1989, Assistant Secretary of State for European
and Canadian Affairs. Ambassador Ridgway served as President until 1993
and Co-Chair until mid-1996 of the Atlantic Council of the
United States, an association to promote better
understanding of major foreign policy issues. Ambassador
Ridgway is on the boards of the following public companies in addition
to 3M: The Boeing Company, Emerson Electric Co., Sara Lee Corporation,
Manpower Inc., and the New Perspective Fund. She is also affiliated
with certain non-profit organizations, including as trustee of the
Center for Naval Analyses, Hamline University, and the National
Geographic Society. She is also chair of The Baltic-American Enterprise
Fund. 
Director since 1989. 


  

Louis W. Sullivan, 70, President
Emeritus, Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia. Since
completion of his medical training, Dr. Sullivan has held both
professional and administrative positions in health care facilities and
medical training institutions. He joined Morehouse College as Professor
of Biology and Medicine in 1975 and was the founding dean and director
of the Medical Education Program at the college. He was named President
of Morehouse School of Medicine in 1981. He served as Secretary, United
States Department of Health and Human Services, from 1989 to 1993. He
returned to Morehouse School of Medicine in 1993. Dr. Sullivan retired
as President in 2002. Dr. Sullivan is on the boards of the
following public companies in addition to 3M: Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company, CIGNA Corporation, Equifax, Inc., Georgia-Pacific Corporation,
Henry Schein, Inc., and United Therapeutics Corporation. He is also
affiliated with certain non-profit organizations, including as Chairman
of Medical Education for South African Blacks and trustee of The Little
League Foundation. 
Director since 1993. 






14 










Directors Whose Terms Expire at the 2006 Annual
Meeting: 




  

Linda G. Alvarado, 51, President and Chief
Executive Officer, Alvarado Construction, Inc. In 1976, Ms.
Alvarado founded Alvarado Construction, Inc. and has overseen the
growth of that enterprise as a commercial general contracting firm. Ms.
Alvarado is on the boards of the following public companies in addition
to 3M: Lennox International Inc., Pitney Bowes, Inc., QWEST
Communications International, Inc., and The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc.
She is a co-owner of the Colorado Rockies Baseball Club.
Director since 2000. 


  

Edward M. Liddy, 58, Chairman, President and
Chief Executive Officer of The Allstate Corporation, the parent of
Allstate Insurance Company, a personal lines insurance company, since
1999. He served as President and Chief Operating Officer of The
Allstate Corporation from 1994 to 1998. Before joining Allstate,
Mr. Liddy was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of Sears, Roebuck and Co., where he held a variety of senior
operating and financial positions since 1988. Mr. Liddy is on
the boards of the following public companies in addition to 3M and The
Allstate Corporation: The Kroger Co. and Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. He
is also affiliated with certain non-profit organizations, including as
director of Catalyst and Northwestern Memorial
Hospital, and as Chairman of the
Boys & Girls Clubs of
America.
Director since 2000. 


  

Robert S. Morrison, 61, Retired Vice Chairman
of PepsiCo, Inc., a processor of packaged foods and beverages.
Mr. Morrison served as Vice Chairman of PepsiCo, Inc. from
2001 to February 2003. From 1997 until the 2001 merger with PepsiCo,
Mr. Morrison was Chairman, President and Chief Executive
Officer of The Quaker Oats Company. Mr. Morrison is on the
boards of the following public companies in addition to 3M: AON
Corporation, Illinois Tool Works, Inc., and the Tribune Company.
Director since 2002. 


  

Aulana L. Peters, 62, Retired Partner, Gibson,
Dunn & Crutcher LLP, a law firm, Los Angeles, California. Mrs.
Peters joined Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher as an Associate in 1973. In 1980,
she was named a Partner in the firm and continued in the practice of
law until 1984, when she accepted an appointment as Commissioner of the
Securities and Exchange Commission. In 1988, after serving four years
as Commissioner, she returned to the private practice of law from which
she retired on December 31, 2000. From January 1,
2001, to April 2002, Mrs. Peters was a member of the Public
Oversight Board (“POB”) of the American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants. The POB had general oversight responsibility for
auditors. Mrs. Peters was a member of the Steering Committee for
Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Financial Reporting Project and
a member of the POB’s Blue Ribbon Panel on Audit Effectiveness. She is
a Member, U.S. Comptroller General’s Accountability Advisory Panel.
Mrs. Peters is on the boards of the following public companies in
addition to 3M: Deere & Company, Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc., and
Northrop Grumman Corporation. 
Director since 1990. 






15 










PROPOSAL NO. 2 RATIFICATION OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS 
        The Audit Committee appointed the firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,
independent auditors, to audit the consolidated financial statements of
the Company and its subsidiaries for the year 2004. If the stockholders
do not ratify the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Audit
Committee will reconsider the selection. 
        Audit services provided by the firm in 2003 included audit of
consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries;
reviews of interim consolidated financial information; and
consultations on matters related to accounting and financial reporting. 
        PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP also provided certain audit related and
nonaudit services to the Company during 2003, all of which were
approved by the Audit Committee. 
        Representatives of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are expected to attend
the Annual Meeting where they will be available to respond to questions
and, if they desire, to make a statement. 
        The Board of Directors recommends a vote “FOR” the
ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the
Company’s independent auditors. Proxies solicited by the Board of
Directors will be voted “FOR” ratification unless a contrary vote
is specified. 
PROPOSAL NO. 3 PROPOSAL TO APPROVE AN AMENDMENT TO THE
CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION TO INCREASE THE AUTHORIZED
COMMON STOCK 
        The Company’s Board of Directors has approved and recommends that
stockholders approve at the Annual Meeting a proposal to amend
paragraph A of Article FOURTH of the Company’s Certificate of
Incorporation (the “Certificate”) to increase the number of
authorized shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, from
1,500,000,000 shares to 3,000,000,000 shares. The Board of Directors
believes that the proposed amendment to the Certificate of
Incorporation shown below is in the best interests of the Company and
its stockholders: 
“A.  The total number of shares of all classes of stock which
this Corporation shall have authority to issue is 3,010,000,000
consisting of 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock without par value
and 3,000,000,000 shares of common stock with a par value of $0.01 per
share.” 
        As of February 27, 2004, 944,033,056 shares of common
stock were issued, including 783,967,306 outstanding shares and
160,065,750 shares held by the Company in treasury. Approximately
74,000,000 shares were under option to participants in the Company’s
stock option plans with an additional 35,000,000 reserved for issuance
under stockholder approved stock plans. As of the close of business on
February 27, 2004, none of the Company’s 10,000,000 shares
of authorized preferred stock have been issued. As a result,
approximately 607,032,700 shares of Common Stock (including
shares held in Treasury) remained available for future corporate
purposes. 
        Reasons for the Proposal: The Board of Directors has
concluded that increasing the number of authorized shares of common
stock will give the Company the ability to respond to growth of the
Company’s business that may occur in the future and to react quickly
to today’s competitive, fast-changing environment. Although the Board
has no specific plans or commitments for the issuance of any of the
additional shares that would be authorized by the amendment, the Board
believes that the increase in the number of authorized shares will
provide flexibility for future stock splits (effected in the form of a
stock dividend) without the expense of a special stockholder meeting or
waiting until the next annual meeting, and for other actions the
Company might wish to take, such as paying for acquisitions with stock
of the Company, equity offerings to raise capital, and employee benefit
plans. 
        Certain Effects of the Proposal: If stockholders approve the
proposed amendment, the Board of Directors may issue such shares
without further stockholder action except as required by law,
regulation, or applicable stock exchange requirements. The additional
shares, when issued, will have 







16 













the same voting and other rights as the Company’s presently authorized
common stock. The holders of common stock do not have preemptive rights
to subscribe for additional shares of common stock. 
        Anti-Takeover Effects and Other Provisions: Although the
Board has no present intention of issuing any additional shares of
common stock as an anti-takeover step, the issuance of additional
common shares could be used to create impediments to or otherwise
discourage persons attempting to gain control of the Company. For
example, the issuance of additional shares could be used in a manner
that would dilute the voting power of shares then outstanding. Shares
of common stock could also be issued to persons or entities that would
support the Board of Directors in opposing a takeover bid which the
Board determines to be not in the best interests of the Company, its
stockholders, and its employees. 
        Effective Date: The Board reserves the right to abandon the
amendment set forth in this Proposal at any time before its
effectiveness whether before or after stockholder approval under
Delaware General Corporation Law §242(c). If approved by the
stockholders and not abandoned by the Board, the amendment would become
effective upon the filing with the Secretary of State of Delaware of a
Certificate of Amendment, which filing is expected to take place
shortly after the stockholders approve the amendment. 
        Vote Required: The affirmative “FOR” vote by the holders
of a majority of the outstanding common stock entitled to vote is
required to approve this amendment to the Company’s Certificate of
Incorporation. 
        The Board of Directors recommends that stockholders vote
“FOR” this proposal. Proxies solicited by the Board of Directors
will be voted FOR this proposal unless a contrary vote is
specified. 
PROPOSAL NO. 4 STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL 
        3M has received a stockholder proposal from C. Thomas Keegel (General
Secretary-Treasurer) as representative of stockholder Teamster
Affiliates Pension Plan on behalf of the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters Affiliates Pension Plan, 25 Louisiana Avenue, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20001 (the “Proponent”). The Proponent has
requested the Company to include the following proposal and supporting
statement in its proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders. The proposal may be voted on at the Annual Meeting only
if properly presented by the Proponent or the Proponent’s qualified
representative. 
Proponent’s Proposal: 
RESOLVED: The shareholders of 3M Company, (“3M” or “the
Company”) urge the Board of Directors (the “Board”) to amend the
by-laws to require that an independent director who has not served as
the chief executive of the Company serve as Board Chair. Implementation
will be deferred until the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and will
not interfere with any current employment agreement. 
SUPPORTING STATEMENT: 
It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to protect
shareholders’ interests by providing independent oversight of management, including
the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), in directing the corporation’s business and
affairs, The Board exists to ensure that management acts in the best long-term interests
of the shareholders. Currently at 3M, Mr. James McNerney holds the positions of both
Chairman of the Board and CEO. We believe that no single individual can both fill the
position of CEO and, at the same time, provide the necessary leadership and objectivity
required as Chairman of the Board to properly represent the interests of shareholders.
Further, an appearance of a conflicted Board Chair can damage the credibility of the
Company. We believe a clear delineation between the roles of Chair and CEO is necessary
and will promote greater accountability to 3M’s shareholders.







17 










Investors require consistency and stability from the leadership of our
Company. The Company has faced litigation primarily from alleged users
of the Company’s respirator mask products and ongoing breast implant
insurance recovery litigation. 3M needs a Chairman that can provide
quality independent oversight of management’s performance. 
We believe that separating the positions of Chair and CEO will enhance
independent Board leadership at 3M. Other institutional investors and
corporate governance experts agree: 




  
• 
The National Association of Corporate Directors
recommend that Boards designate an independent director as Chair or
lead director to evaluate CEO and Board Chair functions.  


  
• 
CalPERS’ Corporate Governance Guidelines state, “The
independence of a majority of the Board is not enough. The leadership
of the board must embrace independence, and must ultimately change the
way in which directors interact with management.”  


  
• 
 The Ethical Funds and Domini Social Investments Proxy Voting
Guidelines call for a strong independent director as Board Chair to
represent the interests of
stockholders.  





We believe the recent wave of corporate scandals at companies,
such as Enron, WorldCom, and Tyco demonstrate that no matter how many
independent directors there are on the Board, that Board is less likely
to protect shareholder interests by providing independent oversight of
the officers if the Chairman of that Board is also the CEO of the
company. 

We urge
stockholders to vote FOR
this proposal. 
Board’s Statement Opposing the Proposal 
        The Board of Directors believes it is fundamentally wrong to
permanently and inflexibly separate or combine the positions of
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. To do so deprives
the Board of the ability to act in the stockholders’ best interests in
selecting future Board leadership. 
        The Board rejected permanent separation or combination of the positions
of Chairman and CEO in its Corporate Governance Guidelines, which are
set forth in Appendix A. Instead, the Board adopted an approach that
allows it, in representing the stockholders’ best interests, to decide
who should serve as Chairman or CEO, or both, under present or
anticipated future circumstances. 
        The Proposal appears to presume that a CEO serving also as Chairman
impairs the Board’s independence. That is not the case at 3M. The
Board believes that the Company’s corporate governance measures ensure
that strong, independent directors will continue to effectively oversee
the Company’s management and key issues related to strategy, risk, and
integrity. The Corporate Governance Guidelines provide: 




  
• 
Independent directors comprise a substantial majority of the
Board. Currently, all but one director is independent.  


  
• 
Only independent directors serve on the Audit, Compensation,
Nominating and Governance, and Public Issues Committees. 


  
• 
The committee chairs establish their respective agenda.  


  
• 
The Board and committees may retain their own advisors.  


  
• 
The independent directors meet in executive session without
the CEO or other employees during each regular Board meeting and may
select a director to preside at the meeting. The chairs of the Audit,
Compensation, Nominating and Governance, or Public Issues Committees of
the Board may chair executive sessions where the principal items to be
considered are within the scope of the committee chair’s authority.  





        The Board currently believes that combining the roles of CEO and
Chairman contributes to a more efficient and effective Board. The
independent directors recruited the current Chairman and CEO from
outside 3M to be its leader in a time of changing and challenging
global economic conditions. The Board believes that to drive change and
continuous improvement within the Company, tempered by respect for
3M’s traditions and values, requires the maximum authority to be
effective. The CEO bears primary responsibility for effectively leading
significant change, improving operational efficiency, driving 







18 













growth, managing the Company’s day-to-day business, and reinforcing the
expectation for all employees of continuing to build on 3M’s
century-old tradition of uncompromising honesty and integrity. The
Board currently believes the CEO is the person in the best position to
chair regular Board meetings and is in the best position to bring key
business issues and stakeholder interests to the Board’s attention. 
        The Proponent refers to several of the companies involved in the recent
corporate scandals and asserts that companies with a separate chairman
and CEO are better able to protect stockholder interests by providing
independent oversight of the officers. In fact, several of these
companies cited by the Proponent had separated the positions of
chairman and CEO. The failure of corporate governance at those
companies clearly illustrates that separating the chairman and CEO
positions does not necessarily increase the oversight of management or
improve governance and certainly is not as important as setting the
clear “tone at the top” by an effective CEO. Indeed, in these
instances, separating the roles of chairman and CEO appears to have
been irrelevant. 
        The Board of Directors believes the Company’s Bylaws and Corporate
Governance Guidelines provide appropriate flexibility for the selection
of a Chairman, and that the proposal imposes an unnecessary restriction
that is not in the best interests of the Company and its
stockholders. 
        The Board of Directors recommends a vote “AGAINST” this
proposal for the reasons discussed above. Proxies solicited by the
Board of Directors will be voted “AGAINST” this proposal unless a
stockholder indicates otherwise in voting the proxy. 







19 










COMMON STOCK OWNERSHIP OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 
        The following table sets forth information concerning beneficial
ownership of the Company’s common stock as of February 27,
2004, for: (a) each director and the nominees for director; (b) Named
Executive Officers set forth in the Summary Compensation Table; and (c)
the directors and executive officers as a group. Unless otherwise
indicated, each person has sole investment and voting power (or shares
such powers with his or her spouse) with respect to the shares set
forth in the following table. 
        The number of shares beneficially owned by each director or executive
officer is determined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, and the information is not necessarily indicative of
beneficial ownership for any other purpose. Under such rules,
beneficial ownership includes any shares as to which the individual has
the sole or shared voting power or investment power and also any shares
that the individual has the right to acquire as of April 27,
2004 (60 days after February 27, 2004), through the exercise
of any stock option or other right. Options exercisable within 60 days
after February 27, 2004, are shown separately. 




Beneficial Ownership Table 



Name and Principal Position
Common Stock
Beneficially
Owned (1)
Options
Exercisable (2)
Shares Held as
Deferred Stock (3)
Total



Linda G. Alvarado, Director
 
 
 3,753
 
 —
 
 3,418
 
 7,171
 

   

Edward A. Brennan, Director  
 252
 
 —
 
 33,179
 
 33,431
 

   

Vance D. Coffman, Director  
 0
 
 —
 
 4,442
 
 4,442
 

   

Michael L. Eskew, Director  
 0
 
 —
 
 2,379
 
 2,379
 

   

Edward M. Liddy, Director  
 0
 
 —
 
 8,557
 
 8,557
 

   

Robert S. Morrison, Director  
 3,934
 
 —
 
 1,487
 
 5,421
 

   

Aulana L. Peters, Director  
 1,427
 
 —
 
 29,922
 
 31,349
 

   

Rozanne L. Ridgway, Director  
 2,576
 
 —
 
 37,323
 
 39,899
 

   

Kevin W. Sharer, Director  
 874
 
 —
 
 4,051
 
 5,791
 

   

Louis W. Sullivan, Director  
 1,659
 
 —
 
 15,674
 
 17,333
 

   

W. James McNerney, Jr., Director,  

  Chairman of the Board and  

  Chief Executive Officer  
 223,703
(4)
 1,663,104
 
 0
 
 1,886,807
 

   

Patrick D. Campbell,  

  Chief Financial Officer  
 9,465
(5)
 72,000
 
 0
 
 81,465
 

   

Charles Reich,  

  Executive Vice President  
 64,349
 
 172,445
 
 0
 
 236,794
 

   

Harold J. Wiens,  

  Executive Vice President  
 37,507
 
 280,906
 
 0
 
 318,413
 

   

Richard F. Ziegler,  

  Senior Vice President  
 15,620
(6)
 0
 
 0
 
 15,620
 

   

All Directors and Executive  

  Officers as a Group  

  (28 persons) (7)  
 680,258
 
 3,691,895
 
 140,432
 
 4,512,585
 









20 










FOOTNOTES TO BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP TABLE 
        (1)  “Common Stock Beneficially Owned” includes
(a) stock held in joint tenancy, (b) stock owned as tenants in common,
(c) stock owned or held by spouse or other members of the nominee’s
household, (d) stock in which the nominee either has or shares voting
and/or investment power, even though the nominee disclaims any
beneficial interest in such stock, and (e) shares of profit sharing
stock held by the Company and subject to forfeiture, as more fully
described in footnotes 1 and 3 to the Summary Compensation Table.
Options exercisable within 60 days after February 27, 2004,
are shown separately. 
        (2)  Option prices for these shares range from $24.1186 to
$69.6750 per share. 
        (3)  “Shares Held as Deferred Stock” by nonemployee
directors represent the number of shares of the Company’s common
stock, as of February 27, 2004, which the directors will
receive upon termination of membership on the Board of Directors for
any reason. These shares result from the voluntary election by the
nonemployee directors to defer the payment of directors’ fees. No
shares of common stock have as yet been issued, and the directors have
neither voting nor investment powers in these shares of deferred stock. 
        (4)  Includes restricted shares that generally vest in
increments of 10 percent over a ten-year period if the executive
remains continuously employed by the Company and are subject to
forfeiture under certain circumstances. 
        (5)  Includes restricted shares that generally vest in
increments of one-third over a three-year period if the executive
remains continuously employed by the Company and are subject to
forfeiture under certain circumstances. 
        (6)  Includes restricted shares that generally vest in
increments of one-third over a seven-year period if the executive
remains continuously employed by the
Company and are subject to
forfeiture under certain circumstances. 
        (7)  All directors and executive officers as a group owned
beneficially less than one percent of the outstanding common stock of
the Company. 
 SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF MORE THAN 5 PERCENT
STOCKHOLDERS 
        The following table sets forth information regarding beneficial
ownership of more than 5 percent of the outstanding 3M stock as of
December 31, 2003. 



 
Name/Address 
Shares
Beneficially Owned 
Percent of
StockOutstanding 
 

 
State Street Bank and Trust 
 
 
 
61,768,328(2)
 
 
7.9
 
 

 
  Company (“State Street”) (1)
 
 

 
  225 Franklin Street
 
 

 
  Boston, Massachusetts 02110  
 

 
FMR Corp.
 
 
 
48,362,459
 
 
6.162
 
 

 
  82 Devonshire Street
 
 

 
  Boston, Massachusetts 02109  
 

 
Barclays Funds
 
 
 
36,491,265
 
 
5.26
 
 

 
  59/60 Grosvenor Street
 
 

 
  London, WIX 9DA England  





        (1)  State Street holds 7.9 percent of our outstanding
common stock as trustee for certain 3M savings plans,
including the Company’s Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock
Ownership Plan, a 401(k) retirement savings plan. Under the terms of
the plans, State Street is required to vote shares allocated to the
accounts of the participants in accordance with instructions received
from such participants. 







21 










        (2)  Information is based on a Schedule 13G filed with the
SEC on February 5, 2004. State Street reports that at
December 31, 2003, it had sole power to vote or direct the
vote of 25,210,001 shares and sole power to dispose of or direct the
disposition of 52,931,230 shares. It also reports that it shared voting
power over 34,411,337 shares and shared dispositive power over
8,837,098 shares. State Street disclaims beneficial ownership of all of
the shares listed above. 
SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE 
        Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires our
directors and executive officers to file with the Securities Exchange
Commission reports regarding their ownership and changes in ownership
of our stock. 3M believes that during 2003, its directors and executive
officers complied with all Section 16(a) filing requirements. In making
this statement, 3M has relied upon examination of the copies of Forms
3, 4, and 5 and the written representations of its directors and
executive officers. 
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
Summary Compensation Table 
        The following table sets forth certain compensation information for the
chief executive officer and the four other executive officers of 3M
who, based on their salary and bonus compensation, were the most highly
compensated for 2003 (the “Named Executive Officers”). All
information set forth in this table reflects compensation earned by
these individuals for services in 2003, as well as their compensation
in 2002 and 2001. 






  

  
Annual Compensation
  
Long-Term Compensation 
  



  

  

  

  

  
Awards 
  
Payouts 
  


Name and Principal
Position 
  
Year 
  
Salary ($) 
  
Profit Sharing(Bonus)
($)(1) 
  
Other AnnualCompensation($)(2)
  
RestrictedStockAwards ($)(3) 
  
Options Granted
#-Numberof Shares (4) 
  
PerformanceUnit Plan(LTIP)
Payouts ($) 
  
All OtherCompensation($)(5)
  


W. James
McNerney, Jr 
  
  
  
2003 
  
  
1,540,000 
  
  
3,222,459 
  
  
162,518 
  
  
0 
  
  
462,432 
  
  
0 
  
  
51,745 
  


 Chairman of the Board and 
  
  
  
2002 
  
  
1,400,000 
  
  
3,310,830 
  
  
167,082 
  
  
0 
  
  
430,000 
  
  
0 
  
  
142,762 
  


 Chief Executive Officer 
  
  
  
2001 
  
  
1,300,000 
  
  
2,400,000 
  
  
486,403 
  
  
0 
  
  
360,000 
  
  
0 
  
  
680,616 
  

 

Richard F. Ziegler 
  
  
  
2003 
  
  
600,000 
  
  
775,311 
  
  
29,705 
  
  
760,500 
  
  
46,000 
  
  
0 
  
  
19,054 
  


 Senior Vice
President Legal Affairs and General Counsel 
  
  

 

Charles Reich 
  
  
  
2003 
  
  
579,304 
  
  
458,419 
  
  
2,339 
  
  
0 
  
  
105,782 
  
  
543,366 
  
  
8,807 
  


 Executive Vice
President 
  
  
  
2002 
  
  
495,430 
  
  
468,284 
  
  
9,704 
  
  
0 
  
  
97,098 
  
  
432,895 
  
  
4,778 
  


  
  
  
  
2001 
  
  
456,300 
  
  
264,245 
  
  
18,818 
  
  
0 
  
  
88,442 
  
  
380,640 
  
  
39,443 
  

 

Harold J.
Wiens 
  
  
  
2003 
  
  
618,512 
  
  
406,147 
  
  
61,190 
  
  
0 
  
  
92,636 
  
  
0 
  
  
8,807 
  


 Executive Vice President 
  
  
  
2002 
  
  
566,419 
  
  
472,791 
  
  
21,394 
  
  
0 
  
  
94,952 
  
  
505,575 
  
  
4,778 
  


  
  
  
  
2001 
  
  
517,040 
  
  
333,323 
  
  
36,942 
  
  
0 
  
  
90,524 
  
  
80,240 
  
  
97,150 
  

 

Patrick D. Campbell 
  
  
  
2003 
  
  
540,111 
  
  
442,392 
  
  
6,677 
  
  
0 
  
  
44,000 
  
  
0 
  
  
26,517 
  


 Senior Vice President and 
  
  
  
2002 
  
  
412,500 
  
  
392,579 
  
  
115,403 
  
  
339,810 
  
  
88,000 
  
  
0 
  
  
7,110 
  


 Chief
Financial Officer 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  


 
  
  





FOOTNOTES TO SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE 
        (1)  Generally, profit sharing is paid in cash; however, the
Named Executive Officers have in the past, and may in the future,
receive a portion of their profit sharing in restricted shares of the
Company’s common stock as determined by the Compensation Committee.
The restricted shares vest at the end of three years or at age 65,
whichever occurs first, or upon death or permanent disability. For
Mr. Ziegler, in 2003 Bonus includes $283,333 of a signing
bonus payable to him in accordance with his employment agreement with
the Company. 
        (2)  “Other Annual Compensation” includes perquisites or
other personal benefits received by the named individuals to the extent
that the aggregate amount thereof exceeds $50,000, amounts reimbursed
to individuals during the year for payment of taxes and that portion of
interest above market rates (as determined by the SEC) paid on that
compensation voluntarily deferred by the individuals. For 







22 











Mr. McNerney, Other Annual Compensation includes in 2003,
2002, and 2001, $107,833, $114,300, and $154,362, respectively, for the
incremental cost of company-required personal use of corporate
aircraft. In 2003, the Company changed the method of calculating the
value of the personal use of aircraft from imputed income calculated
pursuant to IRS regulations to incremental cost to the Company. 
        (3)  Value as of the date of grant. As of December 31, 2003, Mr. McNerney held 176,000 shares of restricted
stock that had a value of $14,965,280. These shares resulted from a
grant of 220,000 shares of restricted stock made to Mr. McNerney in
accordance with his employment agreement with the Company. These shares
vest in increments of 10 percent on the 1st of January in the years
2002 through 2011 if he remains continuously employed by the Company.
As of December 31, 2003, Mr. Ziegler held 12,000
shares of restricted stock that had a value of $1,020,360. These shares
resulted from a grant of 12,000 shares of restricted stock made to
Mr. Ziegler in accordance with his employment agreement with
the Company. These shares vest in increments of 33-1/3 percent on the
1st of January in the years 2006, 2008, and
2010 if he remains continuously employed by the Company. As of
December 31, 2003, Mr. Campbell held 4,000 shares
of restricted stock that had a value of $340,120. These shares resulted
from a grant of 6,000 shares of restricted stock made to Mr. Campbell in accordance with his employment agreement with the
Company. These shares vest in increments of 33-1/3 percent on the 1st
of February in the years 2003 through 2005 if he remains continuously
employed by the Company. Dividends are paid on this restricted stock to
the same extent and at the same time the Company pays dividends on its
common stock. (For more information about this restricted stock, see
the section entitled “Employment Contracts, Termination of
Employment, and Change-in-Control Arrangements”). In addition, as of
December 31, 2003, each of the Named Executive Officers held
the following shares of restricted stock having the following values as
a result of profit sharing compensation earned in years prior to 2002:
Mr. McNerney, 17,396 shares having a value of $1,479,182; Dr.
Reich, 688 shares having a value of $58,501; and Mr. Wiens,
894 shares having a value of $76,017. 
        (4)  The number of stock options shown in this column
includes both annual grants of incentive and nonqualified stock options
and Progressive Stock Options, which are described more fully in
footnote 1 to the Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year Table. 
        (5)  “All Other Compensation” includes: (a) for years
prior to 2003, the dollar value of premiums paid on behalf of the
individual for the term portion of life insurance under the Company’s
Senior Executive Split Dollar Plan, and that amount deemed to be
compensation to the individuals under the Company’s Senior Executive
Split Dollar Plan in accordance with rules developed by the SEC; (b)
for 2003, the dollar value of premiums paid on behalf of the individual
for term life insurance coverage provided in lieu of coverage under the
Company’s Senior Executive Split Dollar Plan, or to reimburse the
individual for premiums paid for life insurance under the Senior
Executive Split Dollar Plan; and (c) all amounts contributed by the
Company to the account of each named executive under the Company’s
401(k) plans. During 2003, the only amounts deemed compensation as a
result of premiums paid or reimbursed for life insurance coverage for
the Named Executive Officers were $12,177 for Mr. Ziegler and $8,960
for Mr. Campbell. During 2003, the amounts contributed by the Company
to the accounts of the Named Executive Officers under the Company’s
401(k) plans were $51,745 for Mr. McNerney; $6,877 for Mr. Ziegler;
$8,807 for Dr. Reich; $8,807 for Mr. Wiens; and $17,557 for Mr.
Campbell. 







23 










Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year 
        The following table shows all grants of options to acquire shares of 3M
common stock granted in 2003 to the Named Executive Officers.



  
 


Individual
Grants

  


Name
  
Options/SARsGranted (#)(1)
  
%
of TotalOptions/SARsGrantedto Employees inFiscal Year
  
Exercise orBase Price($/Sh)(2)
  
ExpirationDate (3)
  
Grant DatePresent Value ($)(4)
  


W. J. McNerney, Jr. 
  
  
  
430,000 
  
  
3.157 
% 
$ 
61.850 
  
  
5/13/2013 
  
$ 
5,473,599 
  


  
  
  
  
32,432 
  
  
0.238 
% 
$ 
69.675 
  
  
12/4/2010 
  
$ 
332,820 
  

 

R. F. Ziegler 
  
  
  
46,000 
  
  
0.338 
% 
$ 
61.850 
  
  
5/13/2013 
  
$ 
585,548 
  

 

C. Reich 
  
  
  
74,000 
  
  
0.543 
% 
$ 
61.850 
  
  
5/13/2013 
  
$ 
941,968 
  


  
  
  
  
15,950 
  
  
0.117 
% 
$ 
63.075 
  
  
5/11/2009 
  
$ 
146,616 
  


  
  
  
  
15,832 
  
  
0.116 
% 
$ 
63.075 
  
  
5/12/2008 
  
$ 
145,531 
  

 

H.
J. Wiens 
  
  
  
66,000 
  
  
0.485 
% 
$ 
61.850 
  
  
5/13/2013 
  
$ 
840,134 
  


  
  
  
  
18,716 
  
  
0.137 
% 
$ 
64.325 
  
  
5/9/2010 
  
$ 
139,288 
  


  
  
  
  
7,920 
  
  
0.058 
% 
$ 
64.325 
  
  
5/12/2008 
  
$ 
58,942 
  

 

P. D. Campbell 
  
  
  
44,000 
  
  
0.323 
% 
$ 
61.850 
  
  
5/13/2013 
  
$ 
560,089 
  



  
  


All Optionees 
  
  
  
13,619,311 
  
  
100.000 
% 
$ 
62.294 
  
  
5/13/2013 
  
$ 
170,176,554 
  



  
  




Footnotes to Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year
Table 
        (1)  The Company did not grant any stock
appreciation rights (“SARs”) during 2003. The options shown for
each individual include both annual grants of nonqualified stock
options and grants of Progressive Stock Options (“PSOs”).
Nonqualified options granted to certain participants are subject to a
reload feature when exercised with the payment of the option price in
the form of previously owned shares of the Company’s common stock.
Such an exercise results in further grants of PSOs. The first grant
shown for each individual is the annual grant. The remaining lines are
PSOs. The PSO grants for each individual were made on a single date,
but are, pursuant to SEC rules, shown in multiple lines because of
different expiration dates. 
        PSO grants were made to participants who exercised
nonqualified stock options and who paid the purchase price using shares
of previously owned Company common stock. The PSO grant is for the
number of shares equal to the shares utilized in payment of the
purchase price and tax withholding, if any. The option price for the
PSO is equal to 100 percent of the market value of the Company’s
common stock on the date of the exercise of the primary option. The
option period is equal to the remaining period of the options
exercised. 
        The participant must have owned Company common stock used for
payment for at least six months, and only one exercise of nonqualified
options per participant per calendar year will be eligible for PSO
grants by the Compensation Committee. 
        The presence of PSOs encourages early exercise of nonqualified
stock options, without foregoing the opportunity for further
appreciation, and promotes retention of the Company stock acquired. 
        In any event, a participant receiving an annual grant of
nonqualified stock options can never acquire more shares of Company
common stock through successive exercises of the primary option and
subsequent PSO grants than the number of shares covered by the primary
annual option grant from the Committee. 
        (2)  All options granted during the period were
granted at the market value on the date of grant, as calculated from
the average of the high and low prices reported on the New York Stock
Exchange Composite Index. The option price shown for the “All
Optionees” line is $62.294 and represents the weighted average
exercise price of the options granted in 2003. 
        (3)  The expiration date for the “All Optionees” line is
shown as May 13, 2013, since that is the applicable date for
the vast majority of options granted during 2003. 







24 










        (4)  Pursuant to the rules of the SEC, the Company has
elected to provide a grant date present value for these option grants
determined by a modified Black-Scholes pricing model. The Company’s
use of this model should not be construed as an endorsement of its
accuracy at valuing options. All stock option valuation models,
including the Black-Scholes model, require a prediction about the
future movement of the stock price. Among key assumptions utilized in
this pricing model were: (i) that the time of exercise of stock options
would be 66 months (28 months for PSOs) into the term of the option,
which could be for terms as long as ten years, in recognition of the
historical exercise patterns at the Company for these types of options;
(ii) expected volatility of 25.0 percent (24.1 percent for PSOs);
(iii) risk-free rate of return of 4.6 percent (2.6 percent
for PSOs); and (iv) dividend growth rate of 3.2 percent. No
adjustments for nontransferability or risk of forfeiture have been
made. The Company expresses no opinion that the present value will, in
fact, be realized and expressly disclaims any representation to that
effect. 
Aggregated Option Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End
Option Values
        The following table provides information on option exercises during
2003 and the value of unexercised options at the end of 2003 for the
Named Executive Officers.





Aggregated Option Exercises in Last Fiscal Year, and FY-End Option/SAR Value




Shares Acquired on
ValueRealized
Number Of Unexercised
   Options at FY-End (#)      

Value of Unexercised
In-the-Money Options/SARs
    At FY-End ($)(1)    

Name

Exercise (#)

($)(1)
Exercisable
Unexercisable
Exercisable
Unexercisable















W.J. McNerney, Jr
 
 
 39,328
 
$    713,607
 
 1,337,339
 
 1,075,765
 
$ 36,672,293
 
$ 31,015,116
 

R. F. Ziegler  
 0
 
 0
 
 0
 
 46,000
 
 0
 
 1,066,280
 

C. Reich  
 42,842
 
 704,822
 
 249,426
 
 74,000
 
 6,518,254
 
 1,715,320
 

H. J. Wiens  
 36,870
 
 778,569
 
 280,906
 
 66,000
 
 7,496,486
 
 1,529,880
 

P. D. Campbell  
 0
 
 0
 
 56,000
 
 76,000
 
 1,286,080
 
 1,949,680
 

Total  
 119,040
 
$  2,196,997
 
 1,923,671
 
 1,337,765
 
$ 51,973,113
 
$ 37,276,276
 






        (1)  The “Value Realized” or the
unrealized “Value of Unexercised In-the-Money Options at FY-End”
represents the aggregate difference between the market value on the
date of exercise or at December 31, 2003, in the case of the
unrealized values, and the applicable exercise prices. These
differences accumulate over what may be, in many cases, several years.
These stock options all have option periods of ten years when first
granted, and Progressive Stock Options have option periods equal to the
remaining option period of the primary nonqualified options resulting
in Progressive Stock Options. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards Table 
        The following table shows information on awards during 2003 under the
Company’s Performance Unit Plan for the Named Executive Officers. 





Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards in Last Fiscal Year





Number ofShares, Unitsor Other
Performance orOther PeriodUntil Maturation
Estimated Future PayoutsUnder Non-stock Price Based Plans 


Name 
Rights (#)(1) 
or Payout (2) 
Threshold ($) 
Target ($) 
Maximum ($) 

W. J. McNerney, Jr
 
 
 10,000
 

  3 years
 
$         0
 
$ 1,200,000
 
$ 3,600,000
 

R. F. Ziegler  
 2,400
 
  3 years 
$
         0
 
 288,000
 
 864,000
 

C. Reich  
 2,400
 
  3 years 
$         0
 
 288,000
 
 864,000
 

H. J. Wiens  
 2,400
 
  3 years 
$         0
 
 288,000
 
 864,000
 

P. D. Campbell  
 2,400
 
  3 years 
$         0
 
 288,000
 
 864,000
 







FOOTNOTES TO LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AWARDS TABLE 
        (1)  The Company’s Performance Unit Plan (the “Plan”)
provides long-term compensation to approximately 120 key management
personnel based upon the Company’s attainment of long-term performance
and growth criteria. 







25 










        The Compensation Committee administers the Plan. The Committee has sole
discretion in the selection of participants, performance criteria, size
of awards, performance period, and the timing and form of payment, as
well as all other conditions regarding awards. 
        Awards made in 2003 under the Performance Unit Plan are based on
performance criteria that focus management attention on two key factors
that create shareholder value: Economic Profit Growth and Improvement
in Net Working Capital Turns. The payout can vary from $0 to $360 per
unit. More detail about current performance goals is available in the
Report of the Compensation Committee. 
        The right to receive payment is contingent upon continued employment to
the payment date, and is subject to forfeiture prior to the payment
date in the event of termination of employment for any reason other
than retirement under a pension plan of the Company, death, or physical
or mental disability. Participants receiving awards during 2003,
including the Named Executive Officers, will receive payment in 2006,
provided that such individuals continue employment with the Company
until such payment date (except in the event of death, retirement, or
disability). Payment under the Plan may be made in cash, shares of the
Company’s common stock, or any combination of cash and stock, at the
discretion of the Compensation Committee. In the past, payment has been
made only in cash. 
        (2) The value of awards granted for 2003 will be determined
by the Company’s attainment of Economic Profit Growth and Improvement
in Net Working Capital Turns performance criteria during a three-year
performance period of 2003, 2004, and 2005. More detail about current
performance goals is available in the Report of the Compensation
Committee. 
Employment Contracts, Termination of Employment, and
Change-In-Control Arrangements 
Chief Executive Officer 
        3M has entered into an employment agreement with W. James McNerney, Jr.
providing for his employment as Chief Executive Officer of the Company
and for his election as Chairman of the Board of 3M. The initial term
of the agreement ends on January 1, 2004, but, beginning on
January 1, 2002, the term automatically extends so that the
remaining term is always two years. The agreement provides for an
initial base salary of $1,300,000 per year and for annual profit
sharing initially designed to pay $2,200,000 per year, depending on the
Company’s performance. The agreement also recognizes that Mr. McNerney
will be entitled to participate in the same retirement and welfare
benefit programs that the Company provides to other senior executives. 
        The agreement also required 3M to grant Mr. McNerney the
following stock options, restricted stock, and performance units under
the Performance Unit Plan: 
        Stock Options — Effective December 4, 2000, Mr. McNerney was granted options to purchase 1,200,000 shares of 3M
common stock at $51.525 per share. A portion of these options was
designed to compensate Mr. McNerney for the restricted stock
and stock options he forfeited upon leaving his prior employer. 800,000
of these options become exercisable in increments of 20 percent on the
1st of January in the years 2002 through 2006, and the remaining
400,000 of these options become exercisable in increments of one-third
on the 1st of January in the years 2002 through 2004, in each case
assuming he remains employed by the Company. All 1,200,000 options will
become exercisable in full immediately upon termination of Mr.
McNerney’s employment by reason of death or disability, termination
without cause, a termination for good reason, or a change in control of
the Company. 
        Restricted Stock — In order to compensate Mr. McNerney for
the restricted stock and stock options he forfeited upon leaving his
prior employer, the Company also granted Mr. McNerney 220,000 shares of restricted stock. These shares of restricted stock vest
in increments of 10 percent on the 1st of January in the years 2002
through 2011, assuming he remains employed by the Company, although
such vesting accelerates in the event of the termination of Mr.
McNerney’s employment by reason of death or disability, termination
without cause, a termination for good reason, or a change in control of
the Company. 
        Performance Units — The Company granted Mr. McNerney 10,000
performance units for the performance period commencing January 1, 2001, and ending December 31, 2003, subject to the 







26 













terms of the Company’s Performance Unit Plan. The value of these units
and the amount paid to Mr. McNerney will depend on the
performance of the Company, but in no event will the value be less than
$100 per unit nor more than $200 per unit. 
        The agreement also requires 3M to provide Mr. McNerney
supplemental retirement benefits. If he remains employed by 3M for at
least ten years, the supplemental benefits will be equal in value to an
annuity payable for his lifetime commencing at age 62 and based on 50
percent of his highest average annual compensation over a three-year
period. If Mr. McNerney is employed by 3M for less than ten years, the
amount of these supplemental retirement benefits will be prorated
accordingly. The amount of such benefits will be reduced by the amount
of his benefits under 3M’s pension plans or the pension plans of his
prior employer. These supplemental retirement benefits vest after five
years of employment with the Company, although they vest immediately in
the event of the termination of his employment by reason of death or
disability, termination without cause, a termination for good reason,
or a change in control of the Company. 
        In the event that Mr. McNerney’s employment is terminated by the
Company other than for cause, or if Mr. McNerney terminates
his employment for good reason, then he will receive a lump-sum cash
payment equal to three times his annual base salary and profit sharing.
As a condition to receiving such payment, Mr. McNerney would
be required to sign a release of all claims against the Company. 
Chief Financial Officer 
        3M has also entered into an employment agreement with Patrick D.
Campbell providing for his employment as Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of the Company. The term of this agreement
began on February 1, 2002, and ends on February 1,
2005. If Mr. Campbell’s employment with the Company continues beyond
February 1, 2005, his employment would be governed by the
same terms and conditions that apply to other similar executives of the
Company. The agreement provides for an initial base salary of $450,000
per year and for annual profit sharing initially designed to pay
$300,000 per year, depending on the Company’s performance. The
agreement also recognizes that Mr. Campbell will be entitled
to participate in certain retirement and welfare benefit programs that
the Company provides to other senior executives, and will be entitled
to reimbursement of his reasonable relocation expenses. For purposes of
3M’s postretirement medical program, Mr. Campbell will be
credited with an opening retiree medical credit balance as if he had
completed 12 years of service with the Company. 
        The agreement also required 3M to grant Mr. Campbell the
following stock options, restricted stock, and performance units under
the Performance Unit Plan: 
        Stock Options — Effective February 1, 2002, Mr. Campbell was granted options to purchase 48,000 shares of 3M common
stock at $55.965 per share. These options become exercisable in
increments of one-third on the 1st of February in the years 2003
through 2005, assuming he remains employed by the Company. All 48,000
options will become exercisable in full immediately upon termination of
Mr. Campbell’s employment by reason of death or disability,
termination without cause, or termination for good reason, and in that
event such options shall remain exercisable for up to two years
following Mr. Campbell’s death, the termination of his employment due
to disability, termination without cause, or termination for good
reason. In addition, any portion of these 48,000 options that have
already become exercisable may be exercised by Mr. Campbell
within 90 days following his resignation from the Company without good
reason. 
        In May 2002, Mr. Campbell was granted options to purchase 40,000 shares
of 3M common stock at $64.50 per share. All 40,000 options will become
exercisable in full immediately upon termination of Mr. Campbell’s
employment by reason of death or disability, termination without cause,
or termination for good reason, and in that event such options shall
remain exercisable for up to two years following Mr. Campbell’s death,
the termination of his employment due to disability, termination
without cause, or termination for good reason. In addition, any portion
of these 40,000 options that have already become exercisable may be
exercised by Mr. Campbell within 90 days following his resignation from
the Company without good reason. 
        Restricted Stock — The Company also granted Mr. Campbell 6,000 shares
of restricted stock. These shares vest in increments of one-third on
the 1st of February in the years 2003 through 2005, 







27 










assuming he remains employed by the Company, although such vesting
accelerates in the event of termination of Mr. Campbell’s employment
by reason of death or disability, termination without cause, or
termination for good reason. 
        Performance Units — The Company granted Mr. Campbell 2,400 performance
units for the performance period commencing January 1, 2002, and ending
December 31, 2004, subject to the terms of the Company’s Performance
Unit Plan. These units will vest at the end of such three-year
performance period, assuming he remains employed by the Company,
although such vesting accelerates in the event of termination of Mr.
Campbell’s employment by reason of death or disability, termination
without cause, or termination for good reason. The value of these units
and the amount paid to Mr. Campbell will depend on the
performance of the Company, although in the event that the vesting of
such units accelerates due to the termination of Mr. Campbell’s
employment by reason of death or disability, termination without cause,
or termination for good reason, the value of such units is limited to
their par value ($120 per unit) multiplied by the ratio of the number
of days he was employed by the Company to the total number of days
between February 1, 2002, and December 31, 2004. 
        The agreement also requires 3M to provide Mr. Campbell supplemental
retirement benefits. If he remains employed by 3M for at least ten
years, the supplemental benefits will be payable in the form of an
annuity payable for his lifetime commencing at age 60 and based on 45
percent of his highest average annual compensation over a four-year
period. If Mr. Campbell is employed by 3M for less than ten years, the
amount of these supplemental retirement benefits will be prorated
accordingly. The amount of such benefits will be reduced by the amount
of his benefits under 3M’s pension plans and the pension plans of his
prior employer. Once he has completed two years of employment with 3M,
the sum of these supplemental retirement benefits and the benefits
payable under 3M’s pension plans will not be less than $100,000 per
year. These supplemental retirement benefits (other than the $100,000
minimum benefit, which vests after two years of employment with the
Company) vest after five years of employment with the Company, although
they vest immediately in the event of the termination of his employment
by reason of death or disability, termination without cause, or
termination for good reason. 
        In the event that Mr. Campbell’s employment is terminated by the
Company other than for cause, or if Mr. Campbell terminates his
employment for a good reason, then he will receive a lump-sum payment
equal to (i) two times his annual base salary and profit sharing if
such termination occurs during the first five years following his
employment commencement date, or (ii) one times his annual base salary
and profit sharing if such termination occurs more than five but no
more than ten years following his employment commencement date. As a
condition to receiving such payment, Mr. Campbell would be
required to sign a release of all claims against the Company. 
Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel 
        3M has also entered into an employment agreement with Richard F.
Ziegler providing for his employment as Senior Vice President, Legal
Affairs and General Counsel of the Company. The term of this agreement
began on January 1, 2003, and ends on January 1, 2006. If Mr.
Ziegler’s employment with the Company continues beyond January 1,
2006, his employment would be governed by the same terms and conditions
that apply to other similar executives of the Company. The agreement
provides for an initial base salary of $600,000 per year and for annual
profit sharing initially designed to pay $400,000 per year, depending
on the Company’s performance. The agreement also recognizes that
Mr. Ziegler will be entitled to participate in the same
retirement and welfare benefit programs that the Company provides to
its other similarly situated executives, and will be entitled to
reimbursement of his reasonable relocation expenses. For purposes of
3M’s postretirement medical program, Mr. Ziegler will be credited with
an opening retiree medical credit balance as if he had completed 13
years of service with the Company. 
        The agreement also required 3M to pay Mr. Ziegler the following cash
bonus and to grant him the following stock options, restricted stock,
and performance units under the Performance Unit Plan: 
        Cash Bonus — The agreement provides for a cash-signing bonus in the
amount of $850,000, payable in equal installments on the 1st of January
in the years 2003 through 2005, assuming Mr. Ziegler remains
employed by the Company. Any unpaid installments would become payable
in full 







28 













immediately upon the termination of Mr. Ziegler’s employment by reason
of death or disability, termination without cause, termination for good
reason, or a change in control of the Company. 
        Stock Options — In May 2003, Mr. Ziegler was granted options to
purchase 46,000 shares of 3M common stock at $61.85 per
share. All 46,000 options will become exercisable in full immediately
upon termination of Mr. Ziegler’s employment by reason of death or
disability, termination without cause, or termination for good reason,
and in that event such options shall remain exercisable for up to two
years following Mr. Ziegler’s death, the termination of his employment
due to disability, termination without cause, or termination for good
reason. In addition, any portion of these 46,000 options that have
already become exercisable may be exercised by Mr. Ziegler within 90
days following his resignation from the Company without good reason. 
        Restricted Stock — The Company also granted Mr. Ziegler 12,000 shares
of restricted stock. These shares vest in increments of one-third on
the 1st of January in the years 2006, 2008, and 2010, assuming he
remains employed by the Company, although such vesting accelerates in
the event of termination of Mr. Ziegler’s employment by reason of
death or disability, termination without cause, termination for good
reason, or a change in control of the Company. 
        Performance Units — The Company granted Mr. Ziegler 2,400 performance
units for the performance period commencing January 1, 2003, and ending
December 31, 2005, subject to the terms of the Company’s Performance
Unit Plan. These units will vest at the end of such three-year
performance period, assuming he remains employed by the Company,
although such vesting accelerates in the event of termination of Mr.
Ziegler’s employment by reason of death or disability, termination
without cause, or termination for good reason. The value of these units
and the amount paid to Mr. Ziegler will depend on the performance of
the Company, although in the event that the vesting of such units
accelerates due to the termination of Mr. Ziegler’s employment by
reason of death or disability, termination without cause, or
termination for good reason, the value of such units is limited to
their par value ($120 per unit) multiplied by the ratio of the number
of days he was employed by the Company to the total number of days
between January 1, 2003, and December 31, 2005. 
        The agreement also requires 3M to provide Mr. Ziegler supplemental
retirement benefits. If he remains employed by 3M for at least nine
years, the supplemental benefits will be payable in the form of an
annuity payable for his lifetime commencing at age 62 and based on 45
percent of his highest average annual compensation over a four-year
period. If Mr. Ziegler is employed by 3M for less than nine years, the
amount of these supplemental retirement benefits will be prorated
accordingly. The amount of such benefits will be reduced by the amount
of his benefits under 3M’s pension plans. Once he has completed two
years of employment with 3M, the sum of these supplemental retirement
benefits and the benefits payable under 3M’s pension plans will not be
less than $300,000 per year. These supplemental retirement benefits
(other than the $300,000 minimum benefit, which vests after two years
of employment with the Company) vest after five years of employment
with the Company, although they vest immediately in the event of the
termination of his employment by reason of death or disability,
termination without cause, or termination for good
reason. 
        In the event that Mr. Ziegler’s employment is terminated by the
Company other than for cause, or if Mr. Ziegler terminates his
employment for a good reason, then he will receive a lump-sum payment
equal to (i) two times his annual base salary and profit sharing if
such termination occurs during the first three years following his
employment commencement date, or (ii) one times his annual base salary
and profit sharing if such termination occurs more than three but no
more than ten years following his employment commencement date. As a
condition to receiving such payment, Mr. Ziegler would be required to
sign a release of all claims against the Company. 
Retirement Benefits 
        The Company maintains a tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan for
its eligible employees in the United States. Effective January 1, 2001,
the Company amended this plan (the Employee Retirement Income Plan, or
the “ERIP”) to include a pension equity feature for (1) employees
hired or rehired on or after January 1, 2001, and (2) employees who
voluntarily elected the pension equity feature during the one-time
choice election period in 2001. Of the Named Executive Officers, Dr.
Reich and Mr. Wiens participate in the non-pension equity portion of
the ERIP (the Portfolio I Pension Plan), 







29 













while Mr. McNerney, Mr. Ziegler, and Mr. Campbell participate in the
pension equity portion of the ERIP (the Portfolio II Pension Plan).
Retirement benefits under the ERIP are based on an employee’s years of
service and average annual earnings during the employee’s highest four
consecutive years of service. Since the Internal Revenue Code limits
the amount of benefits that can be paid from the ERIP as well as the
amount of compensation upon which such benefits may be earned, the
Company also maintains several nonqualified pension plans for eligible
employees. The following table shows the estimated annual benefits
payable on retirement under both the ERIP and these nonqualified plans
to the Company’s eligible employees in the United States.






Average
Annual Earnings
During the Highest
Four Consecutive
Years of Service (1)
Annual Portfolio I Retirement Benefits
With Years of Service
Indicated (2)   

10
years
15
years
20
years
25
years
30
years
35
years
40
years



$ 
500,000 
  
$ 
73,540 
  
$ 
110,310 
  
$ 
147,080 
  
$ 
183,850 
  
$ 
220,620 
  
$ 
257,390 
  
$ 
286,140 
  


  
750,000 
  
  
111,040 
  
  
166,560 
  
  
222,080 
  
  
277,600 
  
  
333,120 
  
  
388,640 
  
  
431,765 
  


  
1,000,000 
  
  
148,540 
  
  
222,810 
  
  
297,080 
  
  
371,350 
  
  
445,620 
  
  
519,890 
  
  
577,390 
  


  
1,250,000 
  
  
186,040 
  
  
279,060 
  
  
372,080 
  
  
465,100 
  
  
558,120 
  
  
651,140 
  
  
723,015 
  


  
1,500,000 
  
  
223,540 
  
  
335,310 
  
  
447,080 
  
  
558,850 
  
  
670,620 
  
  
782,390 
  
  
868,640 
  


  
4,500,000 
  
  
673,540 
  
  
1,010,310 
  
  
1,347,080 
  
  
1,683,850 
  
  
2,020,620 
  
  
2,357,390 
  
  
2,616,140 
  


  
5,000,000 
  
  
748,540 
  
  
1,122,810 
  
  
1,497,080 
  
  
1,871,350 
  
  
2,245,620 
  
  
2,619,890 
  
  
2,907,390 
  


  
5,550,000 
  
  
823,540 
  
  
1,235,310 
  
  
1,647,080 
  
  
2,058,850 
  
  
2,470,620 
  
  
2,882,390 
  
  
3,198,640 
  







Average
Annual Earnings
During the Highest
Four Consecutive
Years of Service (1)
Annual Portfolio II Retirement Benefits
With Years of Service
Indicated (2)    

5
years
10
years
15
years
20
years


$ 
500,000 
  
$ 
41,174 
  
$ 
79,604 
  
$ 
115,288 
  
$ 
146,855 
  


  
750,000 
  
  
62,633 
  
  
121,090 
  
  
175,372 
  
  
223,390 
  


  
1,000,000 
  
  
84,091 
  
  
162,576 
  
  
235,455 
  
  
299,925 
  


  
1,250,000 
  
  
105,550 
  
  
204,063 
  
  
295,539 
  
  
376,460 
  


  
1,500,000 
  
  
127,008 
  
  
245,549 
  
  
355,622 
  
  
452,995 
  


  
4,500,000 
  
  
384,509 
  
  
743,384 
  
  
1,076,625 
  
  
1,371,415 
  


  
5,000,000 
  
  
427,426 
  
  
826,356 
  
  
1,196,792 
  
  
1,524,485 
  


  
5,500,000 
  
  
470,343 
  
  
909,329 
  
  
1,316,959 
  
  
1,677,555 
  






FOOTNOTES TO PENSION PLAN TABLES 
        (1)  Earnings include base salary and profit sharing
actually earned by the participant and does not include any other forms
of remuneration. The benefits are computed on the basis of
straight-life annuity amounts and are not subject to any deduction for
social security or other offset amounts. 
        (2)  Under the Portfolio I plan, a participant may retire
with an unreduced pension at age 60 (61 or 62 for employees born after
1942) and if the participant’s age and years of service total at least
90 (91 or 92 for employees born after 1942) he or she would receive a
social security bridge to age 62. Under the Portfolio II plan, a
participant may retire anytime after age 55 with at least five years of
service and their pension is based on the total pension value
determined at retirement converted to an actuarially equivalent
annuity. The Named Executive Officers are presently entitled to the
respective years of service credit set opposite their names: 








 
  W.J. McNerney, Jr.*
3 

 
  R.F. Ziegler*
1 

 
  C. Reich
35 

 
  H.J. Wiens
36 

 
  P.D. Campbell*
2 








*As described above in the summaries of their employment
agreements with the Company (in the section entitled “Employment
Contracts, Termination of Employment, and Change-in-Control 






30 













Arrangements”), Mr. McNerney, Mr. Ziegler, and
Mr. Campbell will be entitled to receive supplemental
retirement benefits from the Company in addition to the annual
retirement benefits shown in the Pension Plan Tables above. 
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
        The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the
“Committee”) reviews the Company’s compensation practices and
policies, annually reviews and approves (subject to ratification by the
independent directors of the Board) the compensation of the Chief
Executive Officer, annually reviews and approves the compensation for
the other senior executives, evaluates the performance of the Chief
Executive Officer, and annually prepares this report on executive
compensation for inclusion in the proxy statement. The Committee’s
membership is determined by the Board of Directors, and is composed
solely of independent nonemployee directors. 
Executive Compensation Philosophy and Practices 
        The Board believes that providing appropriate motivation of the
Company’s executives and effective leadership are essential for
establishing 3M’s preeminence in the markets we serve and creating an
attractive investment for stockholders. The Committee is responsible to
the Board for ensuring that Company executives are highly qualified and
are compensated in a manner that aligns the interests of executives and
stockholders. Consistent with this philosophy, the following core
principles provide a framework for the Company’s executive
compensation programs: 



  
• 
Total compensation must be competitive to attract the best
talent to 3M; motivate employees to perform at their highest levels;
reward outstanding achievement; and retain those individuals with the
leadership abilities and skills necessary for building long-term
stockholder value;  


  
• 
A significant portion (targeted at 65 percent to 89 percent)
of an executive’s total compensation is variable and at risk and tied
to both the annual and long-term financial performance of the Company,
such as economic profit and stock price appreciation; and  


  
• 
Stock ownership is emphasized so that executives manage from
an owner’s perspective. The Committee believes that broad and deep
employee stock ownership effectively aligns the interests of employees
with those of stockholders and strongly motivates executives to build
stockholder value. The Committee has established specific stock
ownership guidelines for key management employees and has created
programs that encourage employees to have an ownership interest in the
Company.  






        The Committee annually surveys the executive compensation practices of
large industrial companies that are likely competitors for executive
talent. The Committee’s objective of maintaining the total
compensation at a competitive level has resulted in short-term
compensation (base salary and profit sharing) being at or very close to
the median and long-term compensation (Performance Unit Plan and stock
options) in the 50th to 75th percentile, with more variability and risk
based on Company performance. 
        Executive compensation is linked to Company performance compared to
specific financial and nonfinancial objectives. These objectives range
from achieving earnings and sales growth targets to upholding the
Company’s Statement of Corporate Values (which include customer
satisfaction through superior quality and value, attractive investor
return, ethical business conduct, respect for the environment, and
employee pride in the Company). 
Components of Executive Compensation 
        The compensation program for executive officers consists of the
following components: base salary, profit sharing, Performance Unit
Plan, stock options, and (in appropriate circumstances) restricted
stock. The Committee determines the amount of compensation under each
component of executive compensation granted to the executive officers
to achieve the appropriate ratio between performance-based compensation
and other forms of compensation, and to reflect the level of
responsibility of the executive officer. 


31 










        Base Salary 
        The Committee establishes base salaries annually in relation to base
salaries paid by companies included in the compensation surveys. Base
salary for an executive officer is established each year based on (1) a
compensation range corresponding to the executive’s responsibilities
and (2) the executive’s overall individual job performance. 
        Profit Sharing 
        Profit sharing is variable compensation based on the quarterly economic
profit of the Company and its business units. Economic profit is
defined as quarterly net operating income minus a charge for operating
capital used by the business. The economic profit measurement is
directly related to the creation of stockholder value since it
emphasizes the effective use of capital and solid profitable growth.
Compensation paid under the profit sharing plan fluctuates based on
Company performance. 
        The amount payable under this plan is based on the number of shares of
profit sharing assigned to a participant, multiplied by an amount based
on quarterly economic profit. The total amount paid under this plan to
the Company’s five most highly compensated executive officers never
exceeds one-half percent of the Company’s consolidated net income for
any period, and no single executive officer ever receives more than
one-sixth percent of the Company’s consolidated net income for any
period. Profit sharing payments to these individuals are subject to
limitations when individual amounts exceed specified relationships to
planned compensation. 
        Currently, all profit sharing payments are made in cash. However, the
plan does permit the Committee to pay all or a portion of the profit
sharing payable to the Named Executive Officers in shares of the
Company’s common stock. 
        Performance Unit Plan 
        The Performance Unit Plan is variable compensation based on the
Company’s long-term performance. The amount payable with respect to
each performance unit granted is determined by and is contingent upon
attainment of the performance criteria selected each year by the
Compensation Committee over the applicable three-year performance
period (each year weighted equally). 
        The performance criteria selected by the Compensation Committee for
performance units granted during 2003 were designed to focus management
attention on two key factors that create shareholder value: Economic
Profit Growth and Improvement in Net Working Capital Turns. 
        Performance Criteria:
        (1)  “Economic Profit Growth” is the percentage amount by which the
Economic Profit of the Company for a year exceeds the Economic Profit
of the Company for the immediately preceding year; and 
        (2)  “Improvement in Net Working Capital Turns” is the percentage
amount by which the Net Working Capital Turns of the Company for a year
increases from the Net Working Capital Turns for the immediately
preceding year; where the term “Net Working Capital Turns” means
the Company’s net sales during the fourth quarter of a year multiplied
by four, and divided by the Company’s Net Working Capital as of the
end of such year; and where the term “Net Working Capital” means
the sum of the Company’s accounts receivable and inventories, minus
the Company’s accounts payable. 
        Performance Unit Plan Payments:
        The amount payable for each performance unit granted in 2003 is linked
to the performance criteria of Economic Profit Growth and Improvement
in Net Working Capital Turns. The amount payable may be anywhere from
$0 to $360 per unit, depending on the performance of the Company during
the three-year performance period ending on December 31, 2005. Payment
for the units granted in 2003 will be made no later than June 2006, in
the form (at the discretion of the Committee) of cash, stock, or a
combination of cash and stock. 
Stock Options and Restricted Stock 
        The objectives of the Management Stock Ownership Program are to help
the Company attract and retain outstanding employees, and to promote
the growth and success of the Company’s business by 







32 













aligning the financial interests of these employees with the other
stockholders of the Company. The Program authorizes the Committee to
grant stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, and
other stock awards to employees of the Company. Currently, the
Committee makes annual grants of stock options under the Program to the
executive officers. These options have an exercise price equal to the
market price of the Company’s common stock on the grant date, and
generally expire ten years after the grant date. Stock options
encourage executives to become owners of the Company, which further
aligns their interests with those of the stockholders. These options
only have value to the recipients if the price of the Company’s stock
appreciates after the options are granted. Currently, the Committee has
made grants of restricted stock under the Program only to selected
executive officers in appropriate circumstances. These circumstances
have included the hiring of new executive officers as well as the need
to retain current executive officers. These shares of restricted stock
vest over periods ranging from one to ten years after the grant date,
which encourage the executives to remain employed by the Company until
the shares have vested. 
Stock Ownership Guidelines 
        The Company’s stock ownership guidelines are designed to increase an
executive’s equity stake in 3M and more closely align his or her
interests with those of our stockholders. The guidelines provide that
the CEO should attain an investment position in 3M’s stock equal to
five times his or her annual base salary, Executive and Senior Vice
Presidents should attain an investment position in 3M’s stock equal to
three times their annual base salary, and Vice Presidents who are
members of 3M’s Quarterly Management Council should attain an
investment position in 3M’s stock equal to two times their annual base
salary. While the stock ownership guidelines provide that executives
attain these investment positions in 3M stock within five years of
their appointment to these positions, most of our executives have
already attained or exceeded these investment positions. 
Chief Executive Officer Compensation 
        Effective January 1, 2001, the Company hired W. James McNerney, Jr., as
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and entered into an
employment agreement. In determining Mr. McNerney’s compensation, the
Board focused on competitive levels of compensation for CEOs managing
companies of similar size and complexity and the importance of hiring a
chief executive officer with the strategic, financial, and leadership
skills to ensure the continued growth and success of the Company. 
        In his third year as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer,
Mr. McNerney continued to demonstrate strong leadership and vision for
the Company. He continued the implementation of five initiatives (Six
Sigma, Global Sourcing Effectiveness, 3M Acceleration, Indirect Cost
Reduction, and e-Productivity) that strengthen 3M and enhance its
competitiveness. 
        The compensation of Mr. McNerney is governed by his employment
agreement and generally consists of the same short-term and long-term
components (base salary, profit sharing, Performance Unit Plan, and
stock options) as those of other Named Executive Officers. A higher
portion of Mr. McNerney’s total compensation is variable and
at risk by being tied to quantifiable measures of the Company’s
performance. These measures are Economic Profit, Economic Profit
Growth, and Improvement in Net Working Capital Turns, as defined above,
and appreciation in the value of 3M stock. 
        In order to compensate Mr. McNerney for the restricted stock and stock
options he forfeited upon leaving his prior employer, the Company also
granted Mr. McNerney 220,000 shares of restricted stock. These shares
of restricted stock vest in increments of ten percent on the 1st of
January in the years 2002 through 2011, assuming he remains employed by
the Company, although such vesting accelerates in the event of the
termination of Mr. McNerney’s employment by reason of death or
disability, termination without cause, a termination for good reason,
or a change in control of the Company. 
        The terms of Mr. McNerney’s employment agreement appear under
“Employment Contract, Termination of Employment, and
Change-In-Control Arrangements” of this proxy statement. 
Limit on Tax Deductible Compensation 
        Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code prohibits the Company from
deducting compensation paid in any year to certain executives in excess
of $1 million but does not subject performance-based compensation to
this limit. The Committee continues to emphasize performance-based
compensation 







33 













for executives and thus minimize the effect of Section 162(m). However,
the Committee believes that its primary responsibility is to provide a
compensation program that attracts, retains, and rewards the executive
talent necessary for the Company’s success. Consequently, in any year
the Committee may authorize nonperformance-based compensation in excess
of $1 million. The Committee recognizes that the loss of the tax
deduction may be unavoidable under these circumstances. 
Conclusion 
        The Committee is satisfied that the short-term and long-term
compensation paid to the executive officers of the Company is aligned
with the Company’s strategic objectives and ensures that payouts are
determined by Company and employee performance. 
Submitted by the Compensation Committee 
Edward A. Brennan, Chair 
Robert S. MorrisonRozanne L. RidgwayKevin W. SharerLouis W.
Sullivan 
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION 
        The members of the Compensation Committee are named in the preceding
section. No members of the Compensation Committee were officers or
employees of 3M or any of its subsidiaries during the year, were
formerly 3M officers, or had any relationship otherwise requiring
disclosure. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 
        The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board of Directors in
its oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process. The Board
of Directors, in its business judgment, has determined that all members
of the Committee are “independent,” as required by applicable
listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange and SEC
rules. In addition, the Board has determined that the Chair of
the Committee, Edward M. Liddy, is both independent and an
“audit committee financial expert” as defined by SEC rules. The
Committee operates pursuant to a written charter, a copy of which is
set forth in Appendix B. As set forth in the Charter,
management of the Company is responsible for the preparation,
presentation, and integrity of the Company’s financial statements, the
Company’s accounting and financial reporting principles, and internal
controls and procedures designed to assure compliance with accounting
standards and applicable laws and regulations. Our independent
auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, are responsible for auditing the
Company’s consolidated financial statements and expressing an opinion
as to whether they are presented fairly, in all material respects, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America. 
        In the performance of its oversight function, the Committee has: 




  
• 
Considered and discussed the audited consolidated financial
statements with management and our independent auditors;  


  
• 
Discussed with our independent auditors the matters required
to be discussed by Statements on Auditing Standards No. 61,
Communication with Audit Committees, and No. 71, Interim Financial
Information, as currently in effect;  


  
• 
Received the written disclosures from our independent auditors
required by Independence Standards Board Standard No.1, Independence
Discussions with Audit Committees, as currently in effect, and
discussed the independence of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP with them; and 



  
• 
Reviewed the services provided by our independent auditors
other than their audit services and considered whether the provision of
such other services by our independent auditors is compatible with
maintaining their independence. 









34 










        Based upon the reports and discussions described in this report, and
subject to the limitations on the role and responsibilities of the
Committee referred to in the Charter, the Committee recommended to the
Board that the audited consolidated financial statements be included in
the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2003, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Submitted by the Audit Committee 
Edward M. Liddy, Chair 
Linda G. AlvaradoVance D. CoffmanMichael L. EskewAulana L.
Peters 
Audit Committee Policy on Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible
Non-Audit Services of Independent Auditors 
        The Audit Committee is responsible for appointing and overseeing the
work of the independent auditor. The Audit Committee has established
the following procedures for the pre-approval of all audit and
permissible non-audit services provided by the independent auditor. 
        Before engagement of the independent auditor for the next year’s
audit, the independent auditor will submit a detailed description of
services expected to be rendered during that year for each of the
following categories of services to the Audit Committee for approval. 
        1.  Audit services include audit work performed in the preparation of
consolidated financial statements, as well as work that generally only
the independent auditor can reasonably be expected to provide,
including comfort letters, statutory audits, and attest services and
consultation regarding financial accounting and/or reporting standards. 
        2.  Audit related services
are for assurance and related services that are traditionally performed
by the independent auditor, including due diligence related to mergers
and acquisitions, employee benefit plan audits, and special procedures
required to meet certain regulatory requirements. 
        3.  Tax services include all services performed by the independent
auditor’s tax personnel except those services specifically related to
the audit of the financial statements, and includes fees in the areas
of tax compliance, tax planning, and tax advice. 
        4.  Other services are those services not captured in the other
categories. 
        Before engagement, the Audit Committee pre-approves these services by
category of service. The fees are budgeted and the Audit Committee
requires the independent auditor to report actual fees versus the
budget periodically throughout the year by category of service. During
the year, circumstances may arise when it may become necessary to
engage the independent auditor for additional services not contemplated
in the original pre-approval. In those instances, the Audit Committee
requires specific pre-approval before engaging the independent auditor. 
        The Audit Committee has delegated pre-approval authority to the chair
of the committee. The chair must report, for informational purposes
only, any pre-approval decisions to the Audit Committee at its next
scheduled meeting. 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S FEES 
        The following table presents fees for professional services rendered by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the audit of the Company’s consolidated
financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2003,
and December 31, 2002, and fees billed for other services rendered by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP during those periods. 







35 










Audit and Non-Audit Fees ($ in millions) 




  
2002
  
2003
  


Audit Fees: (1) 
  
  
$ 
6.6 
  
$ 
7.6 
  


Audit Related Fees: (2) 
  
  
  
0.3 
  
  
0.8 
  


Tax Fees: (3) 
  
  
  
2.1 
  
  
1.3 
  


All Other Fees:
(4) 
  
  
  
0.2 
  
  
0.0 
  


  
  
  

  

  


Total 
  
  
$ 
9.2 
  
$ 
9.7 
  





(1)  Audit fees consisted of audit work and
review services, as well as work generally only the independent auditor
can reasonably be expected to provide, such as statutory audits,
comfort letters, consents and assistance with and review of documents
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
(2)  Audit related fees consisted principally of
audits of employee benefit plans and other attest services. 
(3)  Tax fees consist principally of tax planning
and compliance. 
(4)  All other fees consisted principally of
research, survey, and employee benefit plan advisory services with the
plan sponsor. 








36 










3M STOCK PERFORMANCE GRAPH 
        The following graph compares the five-year cumulative total stockholder
return for 3M common stock (assuming reinvestment of dividends) against
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index and the Dow Jones Industrial
Average (DJIA), both of which are well-known and published industry
indices. The Company is included in both the S&P 500 Stock Index and
the Dow Jones Industrial group of 30 companies. The Company,
as a highly diversified manufacturer and seller of a broad line of
products, is not easily categorized with other, more specific, industry
indices. 
        The annual changes for the five-year period shown in the graph are
based on the assumption that $100 had been invested in 3M stock and
each index on December 31, 1998, as required by SEC rules,
and that all quarterly dividends were reinvested at the average of the
closing stock prices at the beginning and end of the quarter. The total
cumulative dollar returns shown on the graph represent the value that
such investments would have had on December 31, 2003. 
 Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return Among 3M,
Dow Jones Industrial Average, and S&P 500 Index 









Cumulative Return



1998

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003


3M
 
 
 100.0
 
 140.8
 
 176.6
 
 176.8
 
 188.1
 
 263.5
 

DJIA  
 100.0
 
 127.0
 
 121.0
 
 114.4
 
 97.4
 
 124.6
 

S&P 500  
 100.0
 
 120.9
 
 110.0
 
 96.9
 
 75.6
 
 97.1
 







37 










REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBMISSION OF SHAREHOLDER PROPOSALSFOR
NEXT YEAR’S ANNUAL MEETING 
        In order for a stockholder proposal to be considered for inclusion in
3M’s proxy statement for next year’s Annual Meeting, our Corporate
Secretary must receive the proposal no later than 5 p.m. Central Time
on November 29, 2004. Such proposals must be sent via registered,
certified, or express mail (or other means that allows the stockholder
to determine when the proposal was received by the Corporate Secretary)
to: Gregg M. Larson, Assistant General Counsel and Secretary, 3M
Company, 3M Center, Building
0220-13-W-39,
St. Paul, MN 55144-1000. Such proposals must contain the information
required under 3M’s Bylaws, and also must comply with the SEC’s
regulations regarding the inclusion of stockholder proposals in Company
sponsored proxy materials, such as the stockholder continuing to own a
minimum number of shares until the Annual Meeting and appearing in
person or through an authorized representative at the meeting to
present the proposal. 
        Alternatively, stockholders intending to present a proposal at next
year’s Annual Meeting without having it included in the Company’s
proxy statement must comply with the requirements set forth in the
Company’s Bylaws. Our Bylaws require, among other things, that our
Corporate Secretary receive written notice from the record shareholder
no earlier than January 11, 2005, and no later than February 10, 2005.
The notice must contain the information required by the Bylaws, a copy
of which is available upon request to our Corporate Secretary. 
        Proposals received by the Corporate Secretary after the dates mentioned
will not be included in the proxy statement or acted upon at the Annual
Meeting. 
By Order of the Board of Directors.


GREGG M. LARSON
Assistant General Counsel and Secretary  







38 












APPENDIX A

3M CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GUIDELINES 






A. 
  

THE ROLES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT 






1. 
  
The Board of Directors — The business of the Company is
conducted under the oversight of the Board of Directors. The Board
selects the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and delegates to the
CEO the authority and responsibility to manage the Company’s
operations. The Board of Directors serves as elected representatives of
the shareholders, acts as an advisor and counselor to the CEO and
senior management, and oversees management performance on behalf of
shareholders. 






2. 
  
Management — The CEO and senior management are responsible
for running the Company’s business operations. 






B. 
  
BOARD COMPOSITION AND LEADERSHIP 






1. 
  
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer — The
Board has the authority to decide whether the positions of Chairman and
CEO should be held by the same person and shall determine the best
arrangement for the Company and its shareholders in light of all
relevant and changing circumstances. The Board currently believes that
the same individual should hold the position of Chairman and CEO
(Chairman/CEO). 






2. 
  
Size of the Board — The number of Directors should not
exceed a number that can function efficiently. The Nominating and
Governance Committee considers and makes recommendations to the Board
concerning the appropriate size and needs of the Board. 






3. 
  
Board Independence — The Board believes in having a
substantial majority of independent Directors on the 3M Board. A
Director is “independent” if the Board affirmatively determines
that the Director has no material relationship with the Company
directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organization
that has a relationship with the Company and otherwise meets the
requirements for independence of the listing standards of the New York
Stock Exchange. The independent Directors will make the Board decisions
on corporate governance matters. 






4. 
  
Board Membership Criteria — The Nominating and Governance
Committee periodically reviews with the Board the appropriate skills
and characteristics required of Board members given the current Board
composition. It is the intent of the Board that the Board, itself, will
be a high performance organization creating competitive advantage for
the Company. To perform as such, the Board will be comprised of
individuals who have distinguished records of leadership and success in
their arena of activity and who will make substantial contributions to
Board operations and effectively represent the interests of all
stockholders. The Board’s assessment of Board candidates includes, but
is not limited to, consideration of: (i) roles and contributions
valuable to the business community; (ii)
personal qualities of leadership, character, judgment and whether the
candidate possesses and maintains throughout service on the Board a
reputation in the community at large of integrity, trust, respect,
competence and adherence to the highest ethical
standards; (iii) relevant
knowledge and diversity of background and experience in such things as
business, manufacturing, technology, finance and accounting, marketing,
international business, government and the like; or (iv) whether the
candidate is free of conflicts and has the time required for
preparation, participation and attendance at all meetings. A
Director’s qualifications in light of these criteria is considered at
least each time the Director is re-nominated for Board membership. 






5. 
  
Selection of New Director Candidates — The Nominating and
Governance Committee screens and recommends Board candidates to the
Board. 






6. 
  
Director Orientation and Continuing Education — The Company
provides Directors with an orientation and education program to
familiarize them with the Company’s business operations and plans,
industry trends and corporate governance practices, as well as ongoing
education on issues facing the Company and on subjects that would
assist the Directors in discharging their duties. 









A-1 










7. 
  
Directors Who Experience Change in Present Job Responsibilities
or Other Relevant Circumstances — When a Director’s principal
occupation or business affiliation changes, or other circumstances
arise which may raise questions about the Director’s continuing
qualifications in relation to the Board Membership Criteria set forth
above, then the Director will tender her/his resignation, or the
Nominating and Governance Committee will ask for such tender. The
Nominating and Governance Committee will consider the tendered
resignation and recommend to the Board the action to be taken. 






8. 
  
Service On Other For-Profit Boards — Independent Directors
are encouraged to evaluate carefully the time required to serve on
other boards (excluding non-profit) taking into account board
attendance, preparation, participation and effectiveness on these
boards. Independent Directors must advise the Chairman/CEO before
accepting an invitation to serve on another board to enable the Company
to determine whether (i) any regulatory issues or potential conflicts
are raised by the Director accepting such an invitation and (ii) the
Director will have the time required for preparation, participation and
attendance at 3M Board meetings. Independent Directors should not serve
on more than five other boards of public companies in addition to the
Company Board. The current position in excess of these limits will be
in compliance by the end of 2004. 






9. 
  
Retirement Policy — Each nonemployee Director must tender
her/his resignation at the annual meeting following her or his 72nd
birthday. If circumstances dictate, the Nominating and Governance
Committee may ask a Director to continue to serve on the Board past age
72. 






10. 
  
Board Compensation Review — The Nominating and Governance
Committee will periodically receive reports on the status of Board
compensation in relation to other large U.S. companies and is
responsible for recommending to the Board changes in compensation for
nonemployee Directors. 






11. 
  
Board’s Interaction with Stakeholders — The Chairman/CEO
is responsible for establishing effective communications with the
Company’s stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, employees,
communities, suppliers, creditors, governments and corporate partners.
It is the policy of the Board that management speaks for the Company.
This policy does not preclude independent Directors from meeting with
stakeholders, but management where appropriate should be present at
such meetings. 






C.
  
BOARD OPERATIONS 






1. 
  
Selection of Agenda Items for Board Meetings — At the first
Board meeting of each year, the Chairman/CEO will propose for the
Board’s approval agenda items to be discussed during the course of the
year. Before each meeting, the Chairman/CEO will review proposed agenda
items that fall within the scope of responsibilities of a Board
committee with the chair of that committee and distribute the agenda in
advance to the Board. Any Board member may ask to include items on the
agenda. 






2. 
  
Board Materials Distributed in Advance — Board members
receive materials related to agenda items in advance of Board meetings
so that the Directors may prepare to discuss the items at the meeting.
Sensitive subjects may be discussed at the meeting without distributing
written materials in advance or at the meeting. 






3. 
  
Director Responsibilities — Directors must exercise their
business judgment to act in the best interests of the shareholders and
the Company. In discharging this obligation, Directors reasonably may
rely on the Company’s senior executives and its advisors and auditors.
Directors are expected to attend and participate in all meetings of the
Board and of committees on which they serve and to spend the time
needed and prepare for and meet as frequently as necessary to discharge
their responsibilities. 






4. 
  
Board Presentations and Access to Employees — Members of
senior management may be invited to attend part or all of a Board
meeting in order to participate in discussions. Generally, the
executive responsible for an area of the Company’s operations the
Board is to consider makes the presentation. Board members have
complete access to all other members of management and Company
employees. 








A-2 










5. 
  
Board Access to Independent Advisors — The Board and its
committees may seek advice from outside advisors as appropriate. The
Board shall have sole authority to approve related fees and retention
terms. 






6. 
  
Executive Sessions of Independent Directors — Independent
Directors regularly meet without the Chairman/CEO and may select a
Director to facilitate the meeting. The chairs of the Audit,
Compensation, Nominating and Governance, and Public Issues Committees
of the Board may chair executive sessions of the independent Directors
at which the principal items to be considered are within the scope of
the committee chair’s authority. The Board believes that this practice
ensures leadership at all executive sessions of the independent
Directors without needing to designate a lead Director.






D 
  
BOARD COMMITTEES






1. 
  
Committees — The current committees are Audit,
Compensation, Nominating and Governance, and Public Issues. 






2. 
  
Assignment and Term of Service of Committee Members — The
Board is responsible for the appointment of committee members and
chairs, based on recommendations of the Nominating and Governance
Committee. The Board at its first meeting following the annual meeting
of stockholders shall elect the members of each Committee. 






3. 
  
Agenda, Frequency, Length and Reports of Committee Meetings
— The chair of each committee approves the agenda, length of and
attendance at each committee meeting and determines the frequency of
meetings. Materials related to agenda items are given to the committee
members sufficiently in advance to allow the members to prepare for
discussing the items at the meeting. The committee chairs report a
summary of their meeting to the Board following each regular committee
meeting. 






4. 
  
Membership — All Board members may serve on the Public
Issues Committee, but only independent Directors may serve on the
Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Governance Committees. 






5. 
  
Responsibilities — The Board periodically reviews the
responsibilities of each committee and approves the committee charters,
copies of which are attached to these
Guidelines. 






E. 
  
BOARD AND MANAGEMENT EVALUATION






1. 
  
Formal Evaluation of the Chairman/CEO — The Compensation
Committee, in consultation with the Chairman/CEO, sets annual and
long-term performance goals for the Chairman/CEO. The Chair of the
Compensation Committee leads the discussion of the Chairman/CEO’s
performance against such goals with the independent Directors and
communicates the Board’s evaluation to the Chairman/CEO. The
Compensation Committee will use the evaluation when determining the
compensation of the Chairman/CEO. 






2. 
  
Board Self-Assessment — The Board will conduct an annual
self-evaluation to determine whether it and its committees are
functioning effectively. The Nominating and Governance Committee will
receive comments from all Directors and share those comments with the
Board. Based on the comments and further discussion, the Board will
make an assessment specifically reviewing areas in which the Board
and/or the management believe improvements could be made to increase
the effectiveness of the Board and its committees. 






3. 
  
Succession Planning — The Board plans the succession to the
position of Chairman/CEO and certain other senior management positions.
To assist the Board, the Chairman/CEO annually assesses senior managers
and their succession potential. The Chairman/CEO also provides the
Board with an assessment of persons considered potential successors to
certain senior management positions. 






4. 
  
Management Development — The Chairman/CEO annually should
report to the Board on the Company’s program for management
development. 








A-3 










Policy on Adoption of a Rights Plan 
        In 2002 and 2003, Mr. Nick Rossi, a 3M stockholder, submitted a
shareholder proposal to 3M regarding the approval process for adopting
a stockholders’ rights plan (also known as a “poison pill”). 3M
does not have a rights plan and is not currently considering adopting
one. The Board continues to believe, however, that there may be
circumstances under which adoption of a rights plan would be necessary
to give the Board the negotiating power and leverage to obtain the best
result for 3M stockholders in the context of a takeover effort. 
        Following consideration of the favorable vote Mr. Rossi’s proposal
received in the past two years and in light of this belief, the Board
has adopted and reaffirmed a statement of policy on this topic. The
Board’s policy is that it will only adopt a rights plan if either (1)
stockholders have approved adoption of the rights plan or (2) the Board
in its exercise of its fiduciary responsibilities, including a majority
of the independent members of the Board, makes a determination that,
under the circumstances existing at the time, it is in the best
interests of 3M’s stockholders to adopt a rights plan without the
delay in adoption that would come from the time reasonably anticipated
to seek stockholder approval. 
        The Board has directed the Nominating and Governance Committee to
review this policy statement on an annual basis and to report to the
Board on any recommendations it may have concerning the policy. The
terms of the policy, as in effect, will be included in 3M’s published
Corporate Governance Guidelines and its proxy statement. 







A-4 












APPENDIX B 

3M Company Board of Directors
Audit Committee Charter
(As Amended February 9, 2004) 






A.  
Purpose: The purpose of the Audit Committee (the
“Committee”) of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of 3M
Company (the “Company”) is to assist the Board in its oversight of
(i) the integrity of the Company’s financial statements, (ii) the
Company’s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, (iii) the
qualifications and independence of the Company’s external auditor (the
“Independent Auditor”), and (iv) performance of the Company’s
internal auditing department (“Internal Audit”) and the Independent
Auditor. 






B.  
Membership: The Committee’s membership is determined by the
Board upon recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee
and consists of at least three directors. The members of the Committee
shall meet the independence and experience requirements of the listing
standards of the New York Stock Exchange and the requirements for audit
committee service set forth in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the “Act”), and the rules and regulations of the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). At least one member of
the Committee shall be an “audit committee financial expert” as
determined by the Board in compliance with criteria established by the
SEC. Committee members shall not serve on the audit committees of more
than two other public companies unless the Board determines that such
service does not impair the member’s ability to serve effectively on
the Committee. 






C.  
Roles and Responsibilities: The Committee’s responsibility
is one of oversight. The management of the Company is responsible for
the preparation of complete and accurate annual and quarterly
consolidated financial statements (“financial statements”) in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United
States and for maintaining appropriate accounting and financial
reporting principles and policies and internal controls designed to
assure compliance with accounting standards and laws and regulations.
The Independent Auditor is responsible for planning and conducting in
accordance with Generally Accepted Auditing Standards in the United
States an audit of the Company’s annual consolidated financial
statements and a review of the Company’s quarterly financial
statements. The Committee shall have the authority to take any and all
acts that it deems necessary to carry out its oversight function,
including but not limited to: 






1.  
  
Financial Reporting and Disclosure 






a.  
  
Review and discuss the annual audited financial
statements and quarterly financial statements with management and the
Independent Auditor, including the disclosures under the caption
“Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.” The Committee shall make a recommendation to
the Board as to whether the audited financial statements should be
included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K. 






b.  
  
Review the Company’s financial reporting
processes, disclosure and internal controls and procedures, and the
process for the CEO and CFO quarterly certifications required by the
SEC with respect to financial statements and the Company’s disclosure
and internal controls and procedures. Such review shall include a
consideration of major issues regarding accounting principles and
financial statement presentations, including any significant changes in
the Company’s selection or application of accounting principles, and
any reports by the CEO and CFO regarding major issues as to the
adequacy of the Company’s disclosure and internal controls and
procedures and any special audit steps adopted in light of identified
deficiencies. 






c.  
  
Obtain and review annually, prior to the
completion of the Independent Auditor’s annual audit of the Company’s
year-end financial statements (the “Annual Audit”), a report from
the Independent Auditor, describing (i) all critical accounting
policies and practices to be used in the financial statements, (ii) all
alternative treatments of financial information within generally
accepted accounting principles that have been discussed with
management, 








B-1 










 
  
ramifications of the use of such alternative disclosures and treatments,
and the treatment preferred by the Independent Auditor, and (iii) other
material written communications between the Independent Auditor and
management, such as any management letter or schedule of unadjusted
differences. Review any reports on such topics or similar topics
prepared by management, including any significant financial reporting
issues and judgments made in connection with the preparation of the
financial statements. Discuss with the Independent Auditor any material
issues raised in such reports.






d.  
  
Discuss earnings press releases, as well as
financial information and earnings guidance provided to analysts and
rating agencies, provided that such discussions may be done generally
(i.e., by discussing the types of information to be disclosed and the
type of presentation to be made). The management will review with the
chair of the Committee earnings press releases prior to issuance. 






e.  
  
Discuss with management and the Independent
Auditor the effect of regulatory and accounting initiatives, as well as
off-balance sheet structures, if any, on the Company’s financial
statements. 






2.  
  
Internal Audit






a.  
  
Review the annual plan and scope of work of
Internal Audit, including its responsibilities and staffing. 






b.  
  
Review, as appropriate, the results of internal
audits and discuss related significant internal control matters with
the Company’s internal auditor and Company management. 






c.  
  
Discuss the adequacy of the Company’s internal
controls with Internal Audit. 






d.  
  
Review the appointment and periodically evaluate
the performance of the senior internal auditing executive. 






3.  
  
Independent Auditor 






a.  
  
Responsible for the appointment, retention,
termination, compensation and oversight of the Independent Auditor. The
Committee shall also be responsible for the resolution of disagreements
between management and the Independent Auditor. The Independent Auditor
shall report directly to the Committee. 






b.  
  
Review the scope of the Annual Audit and
services to be provided by the Independent Auditor during the year.
Pre-approve all audit and permitted non-audit services to be provided
to the Company by the Independent Auditor, subject to any exceptions
provided by the Act. The chair of the Committee may pre-approve any
such services according to the procedures approved by the Committee,
provided that any approval by the chair must be presented to the
Committee at its next meeting. 






c.  
  
Obtain and review, at least annually, a report
from the Independent Auditor describing: (i) the Independent Auditor’s
internal quality-control procedures; (ii) any material issues raised by
the most recent internal quality-control review, or peer review, of the
Independent Auditor, or by any inquiry or investigation by governmental
or professional authorities, within the preceding five years,
respecting one or more independent audits carried out by the
Independent Auditor, and any steps taken to deal with any such issues;
and (iii) all relationships between the Independent Auditor and the
Company, including the matters set forth in Independence Standards
Board Standard No. 1. Discuss with the Independent Auditor any issues
or relationships disclosed in such report that, in the judgment of the
Committee, may have an impact on the competence or independence of the
Independent Auditor. 






d.  
  
Discuss with the Independent Auditor the matters
required to be discussed pursuant to the Statement on Auditing
Standards No. 61, Communication with Audit Committees, as currently in
effect, including any audit problems or difficulties encountered in
performing the audit and management’s response, and disagreements with
management. 









B-2 










e.  
  
Obtain assurance from the Independent Auditor
that the audit was conducted in a manner consistent with Section 10A of
the Act. 






f.  
  
Review and periodically evaluate the
performance of the lead audit partner of the Independent Auditor and
assure the regular rotation of the lead audit partner and the audit
partner responsible for reviewing the audit as required by law. 






g.  
  
Establish policies for the Company’s hiring of
employees or former employees of the Independent Auditor who
participated in any capacity in the audit of the Company. 






4.  
  
Risk Management and Compliance






a.  
  
Discuss policies and procedures with respect to
risk assessment and risk management, the Company’s major risk
exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and mitigate
such exposures. 






b.  
  
Review the effectiveness of the system for
monitoring compliance with laws, regulations and the Company’s
business conduct policies and the results of management’s
investigation and follow-up on any fraudulent acts or accounting
irregularities. 






c.  
  
Periodically obtain reports from management
regarding compliance. 






d.  
  
Review with the Company’s General Counsel legal
matters that may have a material impact on the consolidated financial
statements and any material reports or inquiries received from
regulators or governmental agencies regarding compliance. 






e.  
  
Establish procedures for (i) the receipt,
retention, and treatment of complaints received by the Company
regarding accounting, internal accounting controls, or auditing
matters; and (ii) the confidential, anonymous submission by Company
employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing
matters. Review periodically with management and Internal Audit these
procedures and any significant complaints received. 






5.  
  
Meetings, Reports, Charter Review,
Performance Evaluation and Outside Advisors 






a.  
  
The Committee shall meet with such frequency and
at such intervals as it shall determine is necessary to carry out its
duties and responsibilities, but in any case, not less than four times
a year. The Committee shall meet separately, periodically, with
management, with internal auditors and with the Independent Auditors. A
majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. A majority of the
members present shall decide any matter brought before the Committee. 






b.  
  
Report regularly to the Board. 






c.  
  
Prepare the report of the Committee required to
be included in the Company’s annual proxy statement. 






d.  
  
Review the adequacy of this Charter at least
annually and recommend any proposed changes to the Board for approval. 






e.  
  
Conduct an annual performance evaluation of the
Committee. 






f.  
  
The Committee shall have the authority to
retain such outside legal, accounting or other advisors, as the
Committee may deem appropriate in its sole discretion. The Committee
shall have sole authority to approve related fees and retention
terms. 







B-3 










(This page left intentionally blank.) 






 












APPENDIX C 

3M Company Board of Directors
Compensation Committee Charter
(As Amended February 9, 2004) 






A.  
Purpose: The Compensation Committee
(the “Committee”) of the Board of Directors of 3M Company reviews
the Company’s compensation practices and policies, annually reviews
and approves (subject to ratification by the independent directors of
the Board) the compensation for the CEO, annually reviews and approves
the compensation for the other senior executives, evaluates CEO
performance, and annually prepares a report on executive compensation
for inclusion in the Company’s proxy statement. 






B.  
Membership: The Committee’s membership is
determined by the Board and consists of at least three directors. All
members of the Committee shall meet the independence requirements of
the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange, qualify as
“Nonemployee Director” for purposes of Rule 16b-3 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and satisfy the
requirements of “outside directors” for purposes of Section 162(m)
of the Internal Revenue Code. 






C.  
Roles and Responsibilities: The responsibilities of
the Committee include: 






1.  
  
Compensation Practices and Policies 






a.  
  
Review compensation practices and policies of
the Company to ensure they provide appropriate motivation for corporate
performance and increased shareholder value. 






b.  
  
Oversee the administration of the Company’s
stock and deferred compensation programs, and determine the employees
who receive awards and the size of those awards under the Company’s
Management Stock Ownership Program. 






c.  
  
Make recommendations to the Board of Directors
regarding the adoption, amendment or termination of equity compensation
programs that require shareholder approval. 






d.  
  
Approve the adoption, amendment and termination
of incentive compensation and deferred compensation programs for
employees of the Company. 






2.  
  
Executive Compensation 






a.  
  
Periodically survey the executive compensation
practices of other large companies. 






b.  
  
Annually review and approve, for the senior
executives of the Company (other than the CEO), (i) the annual base
salary, (ii) profit sharing, (iii) awards under the Company’s
Performance Unit Plan, and (iv) stock option grants and other stock
awards under the Company’s Management Stock Ownership Program. 






c.  
  
Approve for the senior executives of the Company
(other than the CEO) employment agreements, severance arrangements,
change-in-control arrangements and any special or supplemental
benefits. 






d.  
  
Establish and certify the satisfaction of
performance goals for performance-based compensation as required under
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. 






e.  
  
Review shareholder proposals relating to
executive compensation matters and recommend to the Board the
Company’s response to such proposals. 






3.  
  
CEO Compensation 






a.  
  
Review and approve annual corporate goals and
objectives for the CEO. 






b.  
  
The Chairman of the Committee leads the
discussion of the CEO’s performance against such goals and objectives
with the independent directors and communicates the Board’s evaluation
to the CEO. 






c.  
  
Annually review and approve (based on this
evaluation), subject to ratification by the independent directors of
the Board, (i) the CEO’s annual base salary, (ii) the CEO’s annual 








C-1 










 
  
planned profit sharing, (iii) awards to the CEO under the Company’s
Performance Unit Plan, and (iv) stock option grants and other stock
awards to the CEO under the Company’s Management Stock Ownership
Program. In determining the long-term incentive component of CEO
compensation, the Committee will consider the Company’s performance
and relative shareholder return, the value of similar incentive awards
to CEOs at other large companies, and the awards given to the CEO in
past years. 






d.  
  
Approve, subject to ratification by the
independent directors of the Board, for the CEO employment agreements,
severance arrangements, change-in-control arrangements and any special
or supplemental benefits. 






4.  
  
Meetings, Reports, Charter Review,
Performance Evaluation and Outside Advisors 






a.  
  
Hold regular meetings of the Committee,
reporting significant matters arising from such meetings to the Board.
A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. A majority of the
members present shall decide any matter brought before the Committee. 






b.  
  
Prepare a report on executive compensation
required by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission for
inclusion in the Company’s annual proxy statement. 






c.  
  
Review and reassess the adequacy of this Charter
at least annually and submit any changes to the Board for approval. 






d.  
  
Conduct an annual performance evaluation of the
Committee. 






e.  
  
The Committee shall have the authority to retain
such compensation consultants, outside counsel and other advisors as
the Committee may deem appropriate in its sole discretion. The
Committee shall have sole authority to approve related fees and
retention terms. 








C-2 












APPENDIX D 

3M Company Board of Directors
Nominating and Governance Committee Charter
(As Amended February 9, 2004)  






A.  
Purpose: The Nominating and Governance
Committee (the “Committee”) of the Board of Directors of 3M Company
establishes Board membership criteria; assists the Board by identifying
individuals qualified to become Board members; recommends to the Board
matters of corporate governance; facilitates the annual review of the
performance of the Board and its committees; and periodically reviews
CEO and management succession plans. 






B.  
Membership: The Committee’s membership is
determined by the Board and consists of at least three directors. The
members of the Committee shall meet the independence requirements of
the New York Stock Exchange. 






C.  
Roles and Responsibilities: The responsibilities of
the Committee include: 






1.  
  
Board and Committee Membership 






a.  
  
Periodically review with the Board the
appropriate size of the Board and the requisite skills and
characteristics of its members as set forth below. 






b.  
  
It is the intent of the Board that the Board,
itself, will be a high performance organization creating competitive
advantage for the Company. To perform as such, the Board will be
comprised of individuals who have distinguished records of leadership
and success in their arena of activity and who will make substantial
contributions to Board operations and effectively represent the
interests of all stockholders. 






c.  
  
The Board’s assessment of Board candidates
includes, but is not limited to, consideration of: (i) roles and
contributions valuable to the business community; (ii) personal
qualities of leadership, character, judgment and whether the candidate
possesses and maintains throughout service on the Board a reputation in
the community at large of integrity, trust, respect, competence and
adherence to the highest ethical standards; (iii) relevant knowledge
and diversity of background and experience in such things as business,
manufacturing, technology, finance and accounting, marketing,
international business, government and the like; or (iv) whether the
candidate is free of conflicts and has the time required for
preparation, participation and attendance at all meetings. A
director’s qualifications
in light of these criteria is considered at least each time the
director is re-nominated
for Board membership. 






d.  
  
Review the resignation of directors whose
principal occupation or business association changes, or other
circumstances arise which may raise questions about the
director’s continuing
qualifications in relation to the Board membership criteria referred to
above and recommend to the Board what action the Board should take with
respect to the resignation. 






e.  
  
Review the Board’s committee structure and
recommend to the Board the appointment of committee members and chairs. 






2.  
  
Qualified Director Candidates 






a.  
  
Identify individuals that the Committee believes
are qualified to become Board members in accordance with the Board
Membership Criteria set forth above, and recommend that the Board
select such nominee or nominees to stand for election at the next
meeting of stockholders of the Company in which directors will be
elected. 






b.  
  
In the event there is a vacancy on the Board,
identify individuals that the Committee believes are qualified to
become Board members in accordance with the Board Membership Criteria
set forth above, and recommend such person or persons for appointment
to the Board. 









D-1 










c.  
  
Review and evaluate all stockholder nominees for
director (submitted in accordance with the Committee’s policy and the
Company’s Bylaws) in accordance with the Board Membership Criteria set
forth above. 






3.  
  
Corporate Governance 






a.  
  
Review the Company’s Corporate Governance
Guidelines at least annually, and recommend any proposed changes to the
Board for approval. 






b.  
  
Develop and recommend to the Board standards to
be applied in making determinations on the types of relationships that
constitute material relationships between the Company and a director
for purposes of determining director independence. 






c.  
  
Review and recommend to the Board proposed
changes to the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws. 






d.  
  
Review shareholder proposals relating to
corporate governance matters and recommend to the Board the Company’s
response to such proposals. 






4.  
  
Board and Committee Self-Assessment.
Develop and recommend to the Board for its approval an annual
self-assessment process of the Board and its committees and oversee the
process. Based on this process, the Board will make an assessment
reviewing areas in which the Board and/or
management believe
improvements could be made to increase the effectiveness of the Board. 






5.  
  
Succession Planning. Review
periodically with the Chairman/CEO his assessment of corporate officers
and succession plans relating to their positions, and to make
recommendations to the Board with respect to the selection of
individuals to occupy these positions. 






6.  
  
Miscellaneous Matters 






a.  
  
Periodically review and recommend to the Board
changes in Board compensation. 






b.  
  
Establish and periodically review and recommend
to the Board director
retirement policies. 






7.  
  
Meetings, Reports, Charter Review,
Performance Evaluation and Outside Advisors 






a.  
  
Hold regular meetings of the Committee,
reporting significant matters arising from such meetings to the Board.
A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. A majority of the
members present shall decide any matter brought before the Committee. 






b.  
  
Review and reassess the adequacy of this Charter
at least annually and submit any changes to the Board for approval. 






c.  
  
Conduct an annual performance evaluation of the
Committee. 






d.  
  
The Committee shall have the authority to retain
search firms to assist in identifying director candidates, and to
retain outside counsel and any other advisors as the Committee may deem
appropriate in its sole discretion. The Committee shall have sole
authority to approve related fees and retention terms. 








D-2 












APPENDIX E 

3M Company Board of Directors
Public Issues Committee Charter
(As Affirmed February 9, 2004)  






A.  
Purpose: The Public Issues
Committee (the “Committee”) of the Board of Directors of 3M Company
reviews public policy issues and trends affecting the Company, reviews
and advises with respect to the Company’s environmental, health and
safety programs and compliance, human resources, the corporate
contribution program and the 3M Foundation, and reviews and approves
the Company’s response to shareholder proposals relating to public
policy issues. 






B.  
Membership: The Committee’s
membership is determined by the Board and consists of at least three
directors. 






C.  
Roles and Responsibilities: The
Committee: 






1.  
  
Reviews public policy issues and
trends affecting the Company. 






2.  
  
Offers advice, insights and makes
recommendations regarding policies, programs, actions and procedures
which will assist the Company to respond appropriately to its social
responsibilities and the public interest in its business affairs,
including activities such as those related to the environment, human
resources, labor, and community relations. 






3.  
  
Reviews and advises with respect to
the Company’s environmental, health and safety programs and
compliance; human resource programs and compliance; the corporate
contribution program; and the 3M Foundation. 






4.  
  
Review shareholder proposals relating
to public policy issues and recommend to the Board the Company’s
response to such proposals. 






D.  
Meetings, Reports, Charter Review,
Performance Evaluation and Outside Advisors: The Committee shall: 






1.  
  
Hold regular meetings of the
Committee, reporting significant matters arising from such meetings to
the Board. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. A
majority of the members present shall decide any matter brought before
the Committee. 






2.  
  
Review and reassess the adequacy of
this Charter at least annually and submit any changes to the Board for
approval. 






3.  
  
Conduct an annual performance
evaluation of the Committee. 






4.  
  
Have the authority to retain such
outside counsel and any other advisors as the Committee may deem
appropriate in its sole discretion. The Committee shall have sole
authority to approve related fees and retention terms. 








E-1 









Attendance Card  
 Attendance Card
 
Annual
Meetingof
Stockholders   Annual
Meetingof
Stockholders  


May 11, 2004RiverCentre175 West
Kellogg Blvd.St. Paul, Minnesota  May 11, 2004RiverCentre175 West
Kellogg Blvd.St. Paul, Minnesota 

This is your ticket to the 2004 Annual Meeting. Please show
it upon arrival. Annual Meeting activities begin at 8:30 a.m.
with product demonstrations and displays. The meeting starts at 10:00
a.m. After the meeting, lunch will be served and the 3M store will
open. 
  The meeting will be held in the Roy Wilkins
Auditorium. Hosts and hostesses will show you the way after you enter
the RiverCentre. 
  Since parking space is limited, you are urged
to consider carpooling or public transportation.  This is your ticket to the 2004 Annual Meeting. Please show
it upon arrival. Annual Meeting activities begin at 8:30 a.m.
with product demonstrations and displays. The meeting starts at 10:00
a.m. After the meeting, lunch will be served and the 3M store will
open. 
  The meeting will be held in the Roy Wilkins
Auditorium. Hosts and hostesses will show you the way after you enter
the RiverCentre. 
  Since parking space is limited, you are urged
to consider carpooling or public transportation. 
       
Recycled Paper40%
Pre-consumer paper10% Post-consumer paper 






 










3M Company
ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERSTuesday, May 11,
20043M CenterSt. Paul, Minnesota 55144
   




 3M Company
3M Center
St.Paul, Minnesota 55144proxy






The Board of Directors solicits this proxy for
use at the Annual Meeting on Tuesday, May 11, 2004. 
The stockholder(s) whose signature(s) appear(s) on the
reverse side of this proxy card hereby appoint(s) W. James McNerney,
Jr., Edward A. Brennan, and Rozanne L. Ridgway or any of them, each
with full power of substitution, as proxies, to vote all shares of
common stock in 3M Company which the stockholder(s) would be entitled
to vote on all matters which may properly come before the 2004 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders and any adjournments thereof. THE PROXIES SHALL
VOTE SUBJECT TO THE DIRECTION INDICATED ON THE REVERSE SIDE OF THIS
CARD. THE PROXIES ARE AUTHORIZED TO VOTE IN THEIR DISCRETION UPON OTHER
BUSINESS AS MAY PROPERLY COME BEFORE THE MEETING AND ANY ADJOURNMENTS
OR POSTPONEMENTS THEREOF. THE PROXIES WILL VOTE AS THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS WHERE A CHOICE IS NOT SPECIFIED. 
FOR PARTICIPANTS IN 3M’S VOLUNTARY INVESTMENT PLAN
AND EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN (VIP), AND THE 3M SAVINGS PLAN: 
In accordance with the terms of the VIP and Savings Plan,
shares allocated to my respective accounts in these plans on the record
date will be voted by the trustee, State Street Bank and Trust Company,
in accordance with the instructions indicated on the reverse side of
this card, and in accordance with the judgment of the trustee upon
other business as may properly come before the meeting and any
adjournments or postponements thereof. In addition, participants in the
VIP may instruct State Street (as VIP trustee) how to vote a
proportionate number of both the 3M shares held by the VIP that have
not been allocated to accounts of participants and the allocated shares
for which no instructions are received. If no instructions are provided
or if this card is not received on or before May 6, 2004, shares held
in my account for the Savings Plan will be voted by the trustee as
directed by the Public Issues Committee of the 3M Board of Directors.
If no instructions are provided or if this card is not received on or
before May 6, 2004, shares held in my account for the VIP will be voted
by the trustee in the same proportion that the other participants in
the VIP direct the trustee to vote shares in their VIP accounts. 
(Continued, and must be signed and dated on the other
side) 









VOTING
INSTRUCTIONS: 
There are three ways to vote your Proxy 
VOTE BY INTERNET — http://www.eproxy.com/mmm/ — QUICK
*** EASY *** IMMEDIATE COMPANY #



  
• 
Use the Internet to vote your proxy 24 hours a day, 7
days a week, until 12:00 p.m. (CT) on May 10,
2004. 


  
• 
Please have your proxy card and the last four
digits of your Social Security Number available. Follow the simple
instructions to obtain your records and create an electronic
ballot.





VOTE BY TELEPHONE — TOLL FREE —
1-800-560-1965 — QUICK *** EASY *** IMMEDIATE 




  
• 
Use any touch-tone telephone to vote your proxy 24
hours a day, 7 days a week, until 12:00 p.m. (CT) on
May 10, 2004. 


  
• 
Please have your proxy card and
the last four digits of your Social Security Number available. Follow
the simple instructions the voice provides
you.





VOTE BY MAIL
Mark, sign, and date your
proxy card and return it in the postage-paid envelope provided so that
it is received by May 10, 2004, (by May 6, 2004, for
participants in 3M’s Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock
Ownership Plan and the 3M Savings Plan).Your Internet
or telephone vote authorizes the named proxies to vote your shares in
the same manner as if you marked, signed, and returned your proxy card.
The deadline for Internet or telephone voting is 12:00 p.m.
(Central Time) on May 10, 2004, (by May 6, 2004, for
participants in 3M’s Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock
Ownership Plan and the 3M Savings Plan).If you vote
your shares on the Internet or by telephone, you do not need to mail
back the proxy card.
Your vote is important. Thank you for voting.





Registered
Stockholders: Access 3M’s Annual Proxy Materials On-Line

3M is
now offering you the opportunity to access the company’s annual proxy
materials (proxy statement and annual report) over the Internet rather
than in print form. This will give you faster delivery of the documents
and will save 3M, and you the stockholder, the cost of printing and
mailing them. Enrolling for this service will take just a few minutes
of your time. To register for electronic access of future proxy
materials, go to www.econsent.com/mmm/ and follow
the prompts. 




The Board of Directors Recommends a Vote “FOR” Items 1,
2, and 3 and “AGAINST” Item 4. 




1. Election of directors
–Nominees to 2007 Class: 
01 Edward A.
Brennan02 Michael L. Eskew 
03 W. James McNerney,
Jr.04 Kevin W. Sharer 
[  ] 
 Vote FORall
nominees(except as marked) 
[  ] 
Vote WITHHELDfrom all
nominees




(Instructions: To withhold
authority to vote for any indicated nominee,write the number(s) of
the nominee(s) in the box provided to the
right.) 
  





2. 
Ratification of independent auditors 
[  ] 
For 
[  ] 
Against 
[  ] 
Abstain 


3. 
Approval of an amendment to the Certificate of
Incorporation to increase the authorized common
stock 
[  ] 
For 
[  ] 
Against 
[  ] 
Abstain 


4. 
 Stockholder proposal relating to separation
of the roles of CEO and Chairman of the Board 
[  ] 
For 
[  ] 
Against 
[  ] 
Abstain 


5. 
In their discretion, to vote upon other
matters properly coming before the meeting.




THIS PROXY, WHEN PROPERLY EXECUTED,
WILL BE VOTED AS DIRECTED. IF NO DIRECTION IS GIVEN, IT WILL BE VOTED
“FOR” ITEMS 1, 2 and 3, and “AGAINST” ITEM 4.
Address Change? Mark Box
[  ] Indicate changes
below: 

 
Date                       
                                      
  

      


 
Signature(s) in Box
Please sign exactly as your name(s) appears on
Proxy. If held in joint tenancy, all persons must sign. Trustees,
administrators, etc., should include title and authority. Corporations
should provide full name of corporation and title of authorized officer
signing the proxy. 








 






