
DEF 14A
1
a2213428zdef14a.htm
DEF 14A













Table of Contents 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549  
 SCHEDULE 14A  
Proxy Statement Pursuant to Section 14(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 












 
 Filed by the Registrant ý


 
Filed by a Party other than the Registrant o


 

Check the appropriate box:


 
 o
 
Preliminary Proxy Statement


 
 o
 
 Confidential, for Use of the Commission Only (as permitted by Rule 14a-6(e)(2))


 
 ý
 
Definitive Proxy Statement


 
 o
 
Definitive Additional Materials


 
 o
 
Soliciting Material Pursuant to §240.14a-12


















 3M Company




  (Name of Registrant as Specified In Its Charter)


 N/A




  (Name of Person(s) Filing Proxy Statement, if other than the Registrant)


 
 
 
 
 


Payment of Filing Fee (Check the appropriate box):


 ý
 
No fee required.


 o
 
Fee computed on table below per Exchange Act Rules 14a-6(i)(1) and 0-11.



 
 
(1)
 
Title of each class of securities to which transaction applies:
         


 
 
(2)
 
Aggregate number of securities to which transaction applies:
         


 
 
(3)
 
Per unit price or other underlying value of transaction computed pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0-11 (set forth the amount on which the filing fee is calculated and state how it was determined):
         


 
 
(4)
 
Proposed maximum aggregate value of transaction:
         


 
 
(5)
 
Total fee paid:
         


 o
 
Fee paid previously with preliminary materials.


 o
 
Check box if any part of the fee is offset as provided by Exchange Act Rule 0-11(a)(2) and identify the filing for which the offsetting fee was paid previously. Identify the previous filing by registration
statement number, or the Form or Schedule and the date of its filing.



 
 
(1)
 
Amount Previously Paid:
         


 
 
(2)
 
Form, Schedule or Registration Statement No.:
         


 
 
(3)
 
Filing Party:
         


 
 
(4)
 
Date Filed: 
         



 
 

 
 
 Persons who are to respond to the collection of information contained in this form are not required to respond unless the form displays a currently valid OMB control number.



















Table of Contents 
Inge G. Thulin Chairman of the Board, President and
Chief Executive Officer 














 
March 27, 2013




Dear
Stockholder: 
        We
are pleased to invite you to attend 3M's Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will be held on Tuesday, May 14, 2013, at 10:00 a.m., Central Daylight Time at the
RiverCentre, 175 West Kellogg Boulevard, St. Paul, Minnesota. 
        Details
regarding admission to the meeting and the business to be conducted are more fully described in the accompanying Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement. We will report on
Company operations and discuss our future plans. There will also be time for your questions and comments. 
        The
fine attendance of our stockholders at Annual Meetings over the years has been very helpful in maintaining good communication. We sincerely hope you will be able to join us.  For information on how to attend the Annual Meeting,
please read "Annual Meeting Admission" on page 1 of this Proxy Statement. Your vote is
important. Whether or not you plan to attend the Annual Meeting, please vote as soon as possible. You may vote your proxy on the Internet, by telephone, or, if this Proxy Statement was mailed to you,
by completing and mailing the enclosed traditional proxy card. Please review the instructions on the proxy card or the electronic proxy material delivery notice regarding each of these voting options. 
        Thank
you for your ongoing support of 3M. 
Sincerely,








 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  2013 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS     NOTICE OF 2013 ANNUAL MEETING AND PROXY STATEMENT     TABLE OF CONTENTS     

 












 Notice of 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
 
iii


 Proxy Statement
 

1


 Purpose of the Annual Meeting
 

1


 Annual Meeting Admission
 

1


 Information About the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy
Materials
 

2


 Stockholders Entitled to Vote
 

3


 Proposals You Are Asked to Vote On and the Board's Voting
Recommendations
 

4


 Voting Requirements to Elect Directors and Approve Each of the
Proposals Described in this Proxy Statement
 

4


 Voting Methods
 

5


 Changing Your Vote
 

6


 Counting the Vote
 

6


 Confidentiality
 

7


 Results of the Vote
 

7


 Delivery of Documents to Stockholders Sharing an Address
 

7


 List of Stockholders
 

7


 Cost of Proxy Solicitation
 

8


 Transfer Agent
 

8


 Governance of the Company
 

9


 Corporate Governance Guidelines
 

9


 Executive Sessions
 

9


 Board's Leadership Structure
 

9


 Lead Independent Director
 

10


 Communication with Directors
 

11


 Director Independence
 

11


 Director Nomination Process
 

12


 Board's Role in Risk Oversight
 

14


 3M Business Conduct Policies
 

14


 Related Person Transaction Policy and
Procedures
 

15


 Policy on Adoption of a Rights Plan
 

15


 Board and Committee Membership
 

17


 Audit Committee
 

17


 Compensation Committee
 

18


 Finance Committee
 

19


 Nominating and Governance Committee
 

20


 Director Compensation and Stock Ownership
Guidelines
 

21


 Proposals To Be Voted On
 

23





i



 
Table of Contents












 Proposal No. 1 — Election of the Eleven Directors Identified in this Proxy Statement
 
23


 Proposal No. 2 — Ratification of the Appointment of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm for 2013
 

28


 Proposal No. 3 — Advisory Approval of Executive Compensation
 

28


 Proposal No. 4 — Stockholder Proposal on Action by Written Consent
 

29


 Proposal No. 5 — Stockholder Proposal on Prohibiting Political Spending from Corporate
Treasury Funds
 

31


 Information on Stock Ownership of Directors and Executive
Officers
 

35


 Security Ownership of More Than 5 Percent
Stockholders
 

36


 Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance
 

37


 Executive Compensation
 

37


 Compensation Discussion and Analysis
 

37


 Compensation Committee Report
 

56


 Assessment of Risk Related to Compensation
Programs
 

56


 2012 Summary Compensation Table
 

58


 2012 All Other Compensation Table
 

59


 2012 Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table
 

61


 2012 Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End Table
 

64


 2012 Option Exercises and Stock Vested Table
 

66


 Pension Benefits
 

68


 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation
 

70


 Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control
 

72


 Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation
 

75


 Audit Committee Report
 

76


 Audit Committee Policy on Pre-Approval of Audit and
Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 

76


 Fees of the Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm
 

77


 Requirements for Submission of Stockholder Proposals for Next
Year's Annual Meeting
 

78





ii




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
3M COMPANY   3M Center, St. Paul, Minnesota 55144   
NOTICE OF 2013 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS  













TIME AND DATE
 
10:00 a.m., Central Daylight Time on Tuesday, May 14, 2013


 PLACE
 
RiverCentre
175 West Kellogg Boulevard
St. Paul, Minnesota 55102


 ITEMS OF BUSINESS
 
(1)
 
Elect the eleven directors identified in this Proxy Statement, each for a term of one year.


 
 
(2)
 
Ratify the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 3M's independent registered public accounting firm for 2013.


 
 
(3)
 
Advisory approval of executive compensation.


 
 
(4)
 
Consider two stockholder proposals, if properly presented at the meeting. See the Table of Contents for a description of the stockholder proposals.


 
 
(5)
 
Transact such other business as may properly come before the Annual Meeting and any adjournment or postponement.


 ADJOURNMENTS AND POSTPONEMENTS
 
Any action on the items of business described above may be considered at the Annual Meeting at the time and on the date specified above or at any time and date to which the Annual Meeting may be properly adjourned or
postponed.


 ANNUAL REPORT
 
Our 2012 Annual Report, which is not part of the proxy soliciting materials, is enclosed if the proxy materials were mailed to you. The Annual Report is accessible on the Internet by visiting www.proxyvote.com,
if you have received the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, or previously consented to the electronic delivery of proxy materials.


 RECORD DATE
 
You are entitled to vote if you were a stockholder of record at the close of business on Friday, March 15, 2013.


 MEETING ADMISSION
 
An admission ticket or proof of ownership of 3M stock, as well as photo identification, must be presented in order to be admitted to the Annual Meeting. If you are a stockholder of record, your admission ticket is your
proxy card or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials. If your shares are held in the name of a bank, broker, or other holder of record, you must bring a brokerage statement or other proof of ownership with you to the Meeting. If this
Proxy Statement was mailed to you, your admission ticket is included in the mailings. Please refer to the section entitled "Annual Meeting Admission" on page 1 for further details.


 VOTING
 
For instructions on voting, please refer to the instructions on the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials you received in the mail or, if you requested or received a hard copy of the Proxy Statement, on
your enclosed proxy card.















 
 
By Order of the Board of Directors,



 
 






 
 
 GREGG M. LARSON
Deputy General Counsel and Secretary




IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING THE AVAILABILITY OF PROXY MATERIALS FOR THE ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS TO BE HELD ON MAY 14, 2013: The Notice of Annual Meeting, Proxy Statement,
and the 2012 Annual Report are available at www.proxyvote.com. Enter the 12-digit control number located in the box next to the arrow on the Notice of Internet
Availability of Proxy Materials or proxy card to view these materials.
THIS
PROXY STATEMENT AND PROXY CARD, OR THE NOTICE OF INTERNET AVAILABILITY OF PROXY MATERIALS, ARE BEING DISTRIBUTED ON OR ABOUT MARCH 27, 2013. 
iii




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  PROXY STATEMENT     
        The Board of Directors (the "Board") of 3M Company, a Delaware corporation ("3M" or the "Company") is soliciting proxies for the
Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders. You are receiving a Proxy Statement because you own shares of 3M common stock that entitle you to vote at the meeting. By use of a proxy you can vote, whether
or not you attend the meeting. The Proxy Statement describes the matters we would like you to vote on and provides information on those matters so you can make an informed decision. 
        The
information included in this Proxy Statement relates to proposals to be voted on at the meeting (if properly presented), the voting process, 3M's Board and Board committees, the
compensation of directors and certain executive officers, and other required information. 
 
 
  Purpose of the Annual Meeting     
        The purpose of the Annual Meeting is to elect the directors identified in this Proxy Statement and to conduct the business described in
the Notice of Annual Meeting. 
 
 
  Annual Meeting Admission     


•How do I attend the 2013 Annual Meeting? What do I need to bring? 



Only
stockholders are invited to attend the meeting. An admission ticket or proof of ownership of 3M stock, along with photo identification, must be presented in order to be admitted to the Annual
Meeting.  

•If you are a registered stockholder (a stockholder of record), the top half of your proxy card or your Notice of Internet
Availability of Proxy Materials is your admission ticket.   
•If you hold your shares through a broker, bank or otherwise in street name, please bring one of the following: a copy of
the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials or voting instruction form received from your broker, a brokerage statement reflecting your ownership as of the record date March 15,
2013, a letter from your broker or bank, or other evidence of 3M stock ownership as of the record date.   
•If this Proxy Statement was mailed to you, your admission ticket is included in the mailings.   
•If you received your notice of the 2013 Annual Meeting by e-mail, please bring a printout of the
e-mail.   
•You can print an admission ticket at www.proxyvote.com. You will need the
12-digit control number printed on your Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials or your proxy card.   
•If you are not a record date stockholder, you may be admitted to the 2013 Annual Meeting only if you have a valid legal
proxy from a record date stockholder. Any holder of a proxy must present the proxy card, properly executed, and a copy of the proof of ownership. 


        If you do not provide photo identification or comply with the other procedures outlined above, you will not be admitted to the Annual
Meeting.
        No cameras, recording equipment, electronic devices, large bags, briefcases, or packages will be permitted in the Annual Meeting. All cell phones must be turned
off during the meeting.
1



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Information about the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials     


•Why did I receive the Notice of Internet Availability of the proxy materials and not the printed
proxy materials?



This
year, we are pleased to be again using the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rule that allows companies to furnish their proxy materials over the Internet. As a result, we are mailing to
many of our stockholders a notice about the Internet availability of the proxy materials instead of a paper copy of the proxy materials. All stockholders receiving the notice will have the ability to
access the proxy materials over the Internet and request to receive a paper copy of the proxy materials by mail. Instructions on how to access the proxy materials over the Internet or to request a
paper copy may be found in the notice. In addition, the notice contains instructions on how you may request to access proxy materials in printed form by mail or electronically on an ongoing basis.
Continuing to employ this distribution process will conserve natural resources and reduce the costs of printing and distributing our proxy materials. 


•Why didn't I receive the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials in the
mail?



We
are providing some of our stockholders, including stockholders who have previously requested to receive paper copies of the proxy materials, with paper copies of the proxy materials instead of the
Notice. 
In
addition, we are providing the Notice by e-mail to those stockholders who have previously elected delivery of the proxy materials electronically. Those stockholders should have received
an e-mail containing a link to the Web site where those materials are available and a link to the proxy voting Web site. 


•How do I view the proxy materials online?



Go
to www.proxyvote.com and follow the instructions to view the materials. It is necessary to provide the information
printed in the box marked by the arrow located on your Notice. (See example below — the information in the box is an example only — your
number will be different and is unique to you.)





•What if I still prefer to receive a paper copy of the proxy materials?



You
can easily request a paper copy at no cost by selecting from one of the three options below. You will need the information on the Notice that is printed in the box marked by the arrow  (see example above — the
information in the box is an example only — your number will be different and is unique to
you). 

•By INTERNET at  www.proxyvote.com; 
•By TELEPHONE, toll-free at
800-579-1639; or 
•By sending an E-MAIL to  sendmaterial@proxyvote.com; simply enter the
information in the box next to the arrow from your Notice in the subject line.
No other information is necessary. 



•Can I request to receive my materials by e-mail rather than receive the Notice of
Internet Availability of Proxy Materials?



You
may request to receive proxy materials for all future meetings by e-mail by going to  www.proxyvote.com or www.investordelivery.com
and follow the electronic delivery enrollment instructions. If you choose to access future proxy materials electronically, you will receive an e-mail with instructions containing a link to
the Web site where those materials are 


2



 
Table of Contents


available
and a link to the proxy voting Web site. Your election to access proxy materials by e-mail will remain in effect until you terminate it. 


        Please note that you MAY NOT USE YOUR Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials to vote your shares; it is NOT a form for voting. If you send the Notice
of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials back your vote will not count.
        For more information about the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, please visit:
www.sec.gov/spotlight/proxymatters/e-proxy.shtml. 
 
 
  Stockholders Entitled to Vote     
        Each share of our common stock outstanding as of the close of business on March 15, 2013, the record date, is entitled to one
vote at the Annual Meeting on each matter properly brought before the meeting. As of that date, there were approximately 690,763,500 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. 
        Most
3M stockholders hold their shares through a stockbroker, bank, trustee, or other nominee rather than directly in their own name. As summarized below, there are some distinctions
between shares held of record and those owned beneficially:


•STOCKHOLDER OF RECORD — If your shares are registered directly in your name with 3M's Transfer Agent,
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., you are considered the stockholder of record of those shares and the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, or if you requested, these proxy materials are being
sent directly to you by 3M. As the stockholder of record, you have the right to grant your voting proxy directly to 3M or to vote in person at the meeting. You may also vote on the Internet or by
telephone, as described in the Notice and below under the heading "Voting Methods." 
•BENEFICIAL OWNER — If your shares are held in a stock brokerage account, by a bank, trustee, or other
nominee, you are considered the beneficial owner of shares held in street name and these proxy materials are being forwarded to you by your broker, trustee, or nominee who is considered the
stockholder of record of those shares. As the beneficial owner, you have the right to direct your broker, trustee, or nominee on how to vote and are also invited to attend the meeting. However, since
you are not the stockholder of record, you may not vote these shares in person at the meeting, unless you obtain a legal proxy from the broker, trustee, or nominee. Your broker, trustee, or nominee is
obligated to provide you with a voting instruction card for you to use. You may also vote on the Internet or by telephone, as described in the Notice and below under the heading "Voting Methods."  
•If your shares are held in your account in the 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M
Savings Plan, you are considered the beneficial owner of these shares and the trustee of the plans is the stockholder of record. Participants in 3M's Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock
Ownership Plan or the 3M Savings Plan may direct the trustee how to vote the shares allocated to their account by following the voting instructions contained on the proxy card. Participants in 3M's
Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan may also direct the trustee how to vote a proportionate number of allocated shares of common stock for which it has not received direction
by following the same voting instructions. If you fail to direct the trustee how to vote your shares by following these voting instructions, the trustee will vote your shares as described in the
voting instructions. You may also vote on the Internet or by telephone, as described in the Notice and below under the heading "Voting Methods." 

3








 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  Proposals You Are Asked to Vote On and the Board's Voting Recommendations     
        The following proposals are included in this Proxy Statement and are scheduled to be voted on at the meeting. 3M's Board recommends
that you vote your shares as indicated below. 













 


 
 
Proposals:
 
The Board's
Voting Recommendations:


 


1.
 
The election of the eleven directors identified in this Proxy Statement.
 
"FOR"
each nominee
to the Board


 


2.
 
The ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 3M's independent registered public accounting firm for 2013.
 
"FOR"


 


3.
 
Advisory approval of executive compensation.
 
"FOR"


 


4.
 
Stockholder proposal on action by written consent.
 
"AGAINST"


 


5.
 
Stockholder proposal on prohibiting political spending from corporate treasury funds.
 
"AGAINST"


 




        Other
than the proposals described in this Proxy Statement, the Board is not aware of any other matters to be presented for a vote at the Annual Meeting. If you grant a proxy by
telephone, Internet, or by signing and returning your proxy card, any of the persons appointed by the Board of Directors as proxy holders — Gregg M. Larson, David W. Meline, and
Inge G. Thulin — will have the discretion to vote your shares on any additional matters properly presented for a vote at the meeting. If any of our nominees is unavailable as a
candidate for director, the above-named proxy holders will vote your proxy for another candidate or candidates as may be nominated by the Board of Directors. 
 
 
  Voting Requirements to Elect Directors and Approve Each of the Proposals Described in this Proxy Statement     
        Quorum — The presence of the holders of a majority of the outstanding
shares of common stock entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, is necessary to constitute a quorum. Abstentions and "broker non-votes" are
counted as present for purposes of determining a quorum. A "broker non-vote" occurs when a bank, broker, or other holder of record holding shares for a beneficial owner does not vote on a
particular proposal because that holder does not have discretionary voting power for that particular item and has not received instructions from the beneficial owner. 
        Broker Vote — Under New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules, brokers are permitted to vote their clients' shares in "routine"
matters (such as ratification of auditors) so long as the beneficial owner of those shares did not provide voting instructions to the broker at least ten days before the stockholder meeting.
Uncontested director elections, stockholder proposals, executive compensation matters, including say-on-pay, say-on-frequency of
say-on-pay, and say-on golden-parachutes, are not considered "routine" matters for purposes of this rule. As a result, if you do not provide your broker with
instructions as to how to vote your shares, your broker will be prohibited from voting on Proposals 1, 3, 4, and 5. 
        If
you are a beneficial owner (other than as a participant in the 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M Savings Plan), your bank, broker, or other
holder of record is permitted to vote your shares on the ratification of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm for 2013, even if the record holder does
not receive voting instructions from you. 
4



 
Table of Contents
        Election of Directors — In accordance with 3M's Bylaws, each director is elected by the vote of the majority of votes
cast (which means the number of votes cast "for" a director's election exceeds the number of votes cast "against" that director's election with "abstentions" and "broker non-votes" not
counted as a vote cast either "for" or "against" that director's election) with respect to that director's election at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided
that if, as of the tenth (10th) day preceding the date the Company first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the Company's stockholders, the number of
nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected (a "Contested Election"), the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast (which means that the nominees who receive
the most affirmative votes are elected to serve as directors). 
        For
an election where the majority vote standard applies, the Nominating and Governance Committee has established procedures under which any incumbent director who is not elected shall
offer to tender his or her resignation to the Board. In the event an incumbent director fails to receive a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election, the Nominating
and Governance Committee, or such other committee designated by the Board of Directors, shall make a recommendation to the Board of Directors as to whether to accept or reject the resignation of such
incumbent director, or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors shall act on the resignation, taking into account the Committee's recommendation, and publicly disclose (by a press
release and filing an appropriate disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission) its decision regarding the resignation and, if such resignation is rejected, the rationale behind the decision
within ninety (90) days following certification of the election results. The Nominating and Governance Committee in making its recommendation and the Board of Directors in making its decision
each may consider any factors and other information that they consider appropriate and relevant. 
        An
incumbent director who fails to receive a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election (as defined above) and who tenders his or her resignation pursuant
to the procedures described above shall remain active and engaged in Board activities while the Nominating and Governance Committee and the Board decide whether to accept or reject such resignation,
or whether other action should be taken; provided, however, it is expected that such incumbent director shall not participate in any proceedings by the Nominating and Governance Committee or the Board
regarding whether to accept or reject such director's resignation, or whether to take other action with respect to such director. 
        If
the Board of Directors accepts a director's resignation, or if a nominee for director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board of Directors may fill
the resulting vacancy pursuant to the Bylaws. 
        All Other Proposals — The affirmative "FOR" vote of a majority of those shares present in person or represented by proxy at
the meeting and entitled to vote on the matter is required to approve Proposals Nos. 2 through 5. In tabulating the voting result for any particular proposal, abstentions and, if applicable,
broker non-votes are not counted as votes "FOR" or "AGAINST" the proposal. An abstention will, however, be counted as entitled to vote on a proposal and will, therefore, have the effect of
a vote "AGAINST". The stockholder proposals are presented as requests to the Board to take action. 
 
 
  Voting Methods     
        If you hold shares directly as the stockholder of record, you may vote by granting a proxy or vote in person at the Annual Meeting by
requesting a ballot, or, if you hold shares beneficially in street name, by submitting voting instructions to your broker or nominee. If you own shares beneficially as a participant in the 3M
Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M Savings Plan, you may vote by submitting voting instructions to the trustee. In most instances, you will be able to do this over
the Internet, by telephone, or by mail. Even if you plan to attend the Annual Meeting, we recommend that you vote your shares in advance as described below so that your vote will be counted if 
5



 
Table of Contents
you
later decide not to attend the Annual Meeting. Please refer to the summary instructions below and those included on your Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials or proxy card or, for
shares held in street name, the voting instruction card included by your broker or nominee. 
        The
Internet and telephone voting procedures are designed to authenticate stockholders by use of a control number and to allow you to confirm that your instructions have been properly
recorded. If you vote by telephone or on the Internet, you do not need to return your proxy card. Telephone and Internet voting for stockholders of record will be available 24 hours a day, up
until 10:59 p.m. (Central Daylight Time) on May 13, 2013. Participants in 3M's Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan and the 3M Savings Plan may instruct the
trustee how to vote their shares via the Internet, by telephone, or by signing and returning the proxy card by 10:59 p.m. (Central Daylight Time) on May 9, 2013. 


•VOTE BY INTERNET — www.proxyvote.com — If you have
Internet access, you may submit your proxy from any location in the world 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Have your proxy card or the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials in
hand when you access the Web site and follow the instructions to obtain your records and to create an electronic voting instruction form. 
•VOTE BY TELEPHONE — 1-800-690-6903 — If you live
in the United States, you may use any touch-tone telephone to vote your proxy toll-free 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Have your proxy card or the Notice of
Internet Availability of Proxy Materials in hand when you call and then follow the instructions. 
•VOTE BY MAIL — You may vote by signing your proxy card or, for shares held in street name, the voting
instruction card included by your broker or nominee and mailing it. If you provide specific voting instructions, your shares will be voted as you instruct. If you sign, but do not provide
instructions, your shares will be voted as the Board recommends. Mark, sign, and date your proxy card and return it in the postage-paid envelope provided so that it is received by
May 13, 2013 (by May 9, 2013 for participants in the 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan and the 3M Savings Plan), to 3M Company, c/o Broadridge, 51 Mercedes
Way, Edgewood, NY 11717. 
•VOTE IN PERSON — If you are a stockholder of record, you may grant your proxy to 3M or vote in person
at the Annual Meeting by requesting a ballot at the meeting. If you are a street name holder, you may vote in person at the Annual Meeting only if you obtain a legal proxy from your broker, trustee,
or nominee. 

        All
shares that have been properly voted and not revoked will be voted at the Annual Meeting. 
 
 
  Changing Your Vote     
        You may change your proxy instructions at any time prior to the vote at the Annual Meeting. You may enter a new vote by using the
Internet or the telephone or by mailing a new proxy card or new voting instruction card bearing a later date (which will automatically revoke your earlier voting instructions). You may also accomplish
this by granting a new proxy or by voting in person at the Annual Meeting. 
 
 
  Counting the Vote     
        In the election of directors, you may vote "FOR" or "AGAINST" one or more of the nominees or you may "ABSTAIN". Abstentions will have
no effect on the outcome of the election of directors. For Proposals Nos. 2 through 5, you may vote "FOR", "AGAINST", or "ABSTAIN", except that if you "ABSTAIN", it has the same effect as a
vote "AGAINST". If you sign your proxy card or broker voting instruction card with no further instructions, your shares will be voted in accordance with the recommendations of the Board. Shares held
in your account in the 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and 
6



 
Table of Contents
Employee
Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M Savings Plan will be voted by the trustee as described in "Stockholders Entitled to Vote" beginning on page 2. 
        Representatives
of Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc. will tabulate the votes and act as the inspectors of election. 
 
 
  Confidentiality     
        The Company's Board of Directors has a policy that all stockholder proxies, ballots, and tabulations that identify stockholders are to
be maintained in confidence. No such document will be available for examination, and the identity and vote of any stockholder will not be disclosed, except as necessary to meet legal requirements and
allow the inspectors of election to certify the results of the stockholder vote. The policy also provides that inspectors of election for stockholder votes must be independent and cannot be employees
of the Company. Occasionally, stockholders provide written comments on their proxy card that may be forwarded to 3M management. 
 
 
  Results of the Vote     
        We will announce preliminary voting results for those items of business properly presented at the meeting and disclose the preliminary
results for those items (or final results if available) in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within four business days of the Annual
Meeting date. A news release with voting results will also be available on our Web site at www.3M.com/profile/pressbox/index.jhtml. 
 
 
  Delivery of Documents to Stockholders Sharing an Address     
        Securities and Exchange Commission rules allow us to deliver a single copy of an annual report and proxy statement to any household not
participating in electronic proxy material delivery at which two or more stockholders reside, if we believe the stockholders are members of the same family. This rule benefits both you and the
Company. We believe it eliminates irritating duplicate mailings that stockholders living at the same address receive and it reduces our printing and mailing costs. This rule applies to any annual
reports, proxy statements, proxy statements combined with a prospectus or information statements. Each stockholder will continue to receive a separate proxy card or voting instruction card. 
        Your
household may have received a single set of proxy materials this year. If you prefer to receive your own copy now or in future years, please request a duplicate set by calling
1-800-579-1639, by going to the following Web site: www.proxyvote.com, or by e-mail at
sendmaterial@proxyvote.com, or in writing to 3M Company, c/o Broadridge, 51 Mercedes Way, Edgewood, NY 11717. Alternatively, if your household received multiple sets of
proxy materials this year, and members of your household who are entitled to receive proxy materials would all prefer to receive only a single set of proxy materials, you may submit such a request as
specified in the preceding sentence. 
        If
a broker or other nominee holds your shares, you may continue to receive some duplicate mailings. Certain brokers will eliminate duplicate account mailings by allowing stockholders to
consent to such elimination, or through implied consent if a stockholder does not request continuation of duplicate mailings. Since not all brokers and nominees may offer stockholders the opportunity
this year to eliminate duplicate mailings, you may need to contact your broker or nominee directly to discontinue duplicate mailings to your household. 
 
 
  List of Stockholders     
        The names of stockholders of record entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting will be available at the Annual Meeting and for ten days
prior to the meeting for any purpose germane to the meeting, between 
7



 
Table of Contents
the
hours of 7:45 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. (Central Time), at our principal executive offices at 3M Center, Building 220-13E-34, St. Paul, Minnesota
55144-1000, by contacting the Secretary of the Company. 
 
 
  Cost of Proxy Solicitation     
        3M will pay for the cost of preparing, assembling, printing, mailing, and distributing these proxy materials. You will need to obtain
your own Internet access if you choose to access the proxy materials and/or vote over the Internet. In addition to mailing these proxy materials, the solicitation of proxies or votes may be made in
person, by telephone, or electronic communication by our directors, officers, and employees, who do not receive any additional compensation for these solicitation activities. We have hired Georgeson
Shareholder Communications, Inc. to assist us in the distribution of proxy materials and the solicitation of votes. We will pay Georgeson Shareholder Communications, Inc. a fee of
$20,000 plus expenses for these services. We will also reimburse brokerage houses and other custodians, nominees, and fiduciaries for their reasonable out-of-pocket expenses
for forwarding proxy and solicitation materials to beneficial owners of stock. 
 
 
  Transfer Agent     
        Our Transfer Agent is Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. All communications concerning stockholders of record accounts, including address changes,
name changes, common stock transfer requirements, and similar issues can be handled by contacting Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. at 1-800-401-1952 (U.S.),
651-450-4064 (outside the U.S.), www.wellsfargo.com/shareownerservices, or in writing, P.O. Box 64854, St. Paul, MN
55164-0854. 
8




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  GOVERNANCE OF THE COMPANY     
 
    Corporate Governance Guidelines     
        The Board has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines that, along with the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, charters of the Board
committees, and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, provide the framework for the governance of the Company. The
Board's Nominating and Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing and reviewing the Guidelines at least annually, and recommending any proposed changes to the Board for approval. The Corporate
Governance Guidelines, the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, charters of the Board committees, and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are available on our Web site at
www.3M.com, under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance. 
 
 
  Executive Sessions     
        Independent directors regularly meet in executive sessions without the Chairman and CEO or other members of management present to
review the criteria upon which the performance of the Chairman and CEO is based, to review the performance of the Chairman and CEO against those criteria, to ratify the compensation of the Chairman
and CEO as approved by the Compensation Committee, and to discuss any other relevant matters. 
 
 
  Board's Leadership Structure     
        The Board's leadership structure is characterized by:


•a combined Chairman of the Board and CEO; 
•a strong, independent, and highly experienced Lead Director with well-defined responsibilities that support
the Board's oversight responsibilities; 
•a robust Committee structure comprised entirely of independent directors with oversight of various types of risks; and  
•an engaged and independent Board. 

        The
Board of Directors believes that this leadership structure provides independent board leadership and engagement while deriving the benefit of having our CEO also serve as Chairman of
the Board. As the individual with primary responsibility for managing the Company's day-to-day operations and with in-depth knowledge and understanding of the
Company, he is best positioned to chair regular Board meetings as the directors discuss key business and strategic issues. Coupled with an independent Lead Director, this combined structure provides
independent oversight while avoiding unnecessary confusion regarding the Board's oversight responsibilities and the day-to-day management of business operations. 
        The
Board believes that adopting a rigid policy on whether to separate or combine the positions of Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer (CEO) would inhibit the Board's ability to provide for a leadership structure that would best serve stockholders. As a result, the Board has rejected adopting a policy permanently
separating or combining the positions of Chairman and CEO in its Corporate Governance Guidelines, which are reviewed at least annually and available on our Web site at
www.3M.com, under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance. Instead, the Board adopted an approach that allows it, in representing the stockholders'
best interests, to decide who should serve as Chairman or CEO, or both, under present or anticipated future circumstances. 
        The
Board believes that combining the roles of CEO and Chairman contributes to an efficient and effective Board. The Board believes that to drive change and continuous improvement within
the Company, tempered by respect for 3M's traditions and values, the CEO must have maximum authority. 
9



 
Table of Contents
The
CEO is primarily responsible for effectively leading significant change, improving operational efficiency, driving growth, managing the Company's day-to-day business,
managing the various risks facing the Company, and reinforcing the expectation for all employees of continuing to build on 3M's century-old tradition of uncompromising honesty and
integrity. 
        The
Board believes that the Company's corporate governance measures ensure that strong, independent directors continue to effectively oversee the Company's management and key issues
related to executive compensation, CEO evaluation and succession planning, strategy, risk, and integrity. The Corporate Governance Guidelines provide, in part, that (i) independent directors
comprise a substantial majority of the Board; (ii) directors are elected annually with majority vote standard in uncontested director elections; (iii) only independent directors serve on
the Audit, Compensation, Finance, and Nominating and Governance Committees; (iv) the committee chairs establish their respective agendas; (v) the Board and committees may retain their
own advisors; (vi) the independent directors have complete access to management and employees; (vii) the independent directors meet in executive session without the CEO or other
employees during each regular Board meeting; and (viii) the Board and each committee regularly conduct a self-evaluation to determine whether it and its committees function
effectively. The Board has also designated one of its members to serve as Lead Director, with responsibilities (described in the next section) that are similar to those typically performed by an
independent chairman. 
 
 
  Lead Independent Director     
        The 3M Board of Directors has designated one of its members to serve as a Lead Director, with responsibilities that are similar to
those typically performed by an independent chairman ("Lead Director"). Michael L. Eskew was appointed Lead Director by the independent directors effective November 12, 2012, succeeding
Dr. Vance Coffman who served as Lead Director since 2006. Michael Eskew is a highly experienced director, currently serving on the boards of United Parcel Service, Inc., International
Business Machines Corp., and Eli Lilly and Company, and was the former Chairman and CEO of United Parcel Service, Inc. His responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the
following:


•Presides at all meetings of the Board at which the Chairman is not present, including executive sessions of the
independent directors; 
•Acts as a key liaison between the Chairman/CEO and the independent directors;  
•Approves the meeting agendas for the Board, and approves the meeting schedules to assure that there is sufficient time for
discussion of all agenda items; 
•Has the authority to approve the materials to be delivered to the directors in advance of each Board meeting and provides
feedback regarding the quality, quantity, and timeliness of those materials (this duty not only gives the Lead Director approval authority with respect to materials to be delivered to the directors in
advance of each Board meeting but also provides a feedback mechanism so that the materials may be improved for future meetings); 
•Has the authority to call meetings of the independent directors; 
•Communicates Board member feedback to the Chairman/CEO (except that the chair of the Compensation Committee leads the
discussion of the Chairman/CEO's performance and communicates the Board's evaluation of that performance to the Chairman/CEO); 
•If requested by major stockholders, ensures that he is available, when appropriate, for consultation and direct
communication; and 
•Performs such other duties as requested by the independent directors. 

10



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Communication with Directors     
        The Board of Directors has adopted the following process for stockholders and other interested parties to send communications to
members of the Board. Stockholders and other interested parties may communicate with the Lead Director, the chairs of the Audit, Compensation, Finance, and Nominating and Governance Committees of the
Board, or
with any of our other independent directors, or all of them as a group, by sending a letter to the following address: Corporate Secretary, 3M Company, 3M Center, Building
220-13E-34, St. Paul, MN 55144-1000. 
 
 
  Director Independence     
        The Board of Directors has adopted a formal set of Director Independence Guidelines with respect to the determination of director
independence, the full text of which is available on our Web site at www.3M.com, under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance. In accordance with
these Guidelines, a director or nominee for director must be determined to have no material relationship with the Company other than as a director. The Guidelines specify the criteria by which the
independence of our directors will be determined, including strict guidelines for directors and their immediate families with respect to past employment or affiliation with the Company or its
independent registered public accounting firm. The Guidelines also prohibit Audit Committee members from having any direct or indirect financial relationship with the Company, and restrict both
commercial and not-for-profit relationships of all directors with the Company. Directors may not be given personal loans or extensions of credit by the Company, and all
directors are required to deal at arm's length with the Company and its subsidiaries, and to disclose any circumstance that might be perceived as a conflict of interest. 
        In
accordance with these Guidelines, the Board undertook its annual review of director independence. During this review, the Board considered transactions and relationships between each
director, or any member of his or her immediate family and the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates in each of the most recent three completed fiscal years. The Board also considered whether
there were any transactions or relationships between the Company and directors or any member of a director's immediate family (or any entity of which a director or an immediate family member is an
executive officer, general partner, or significant equity holder). The Board considered that in the ordinary course of business, transactions may occur between the Company and its subsidiaries and
companies at which some of our directors are or have been officers. In particular, with respect to each of the most recent three completed fiscal years, the Board evaluated for each of the directors,
Linda G. Alvarado, Herbert L. Henkel, and Muhtar Kent, the annual amount of sales to 3M by the company where she or he serves (or served) as an executive officer, and purchases by that company from
3M, and determined that the amount of sales and purchases in each fiscal year was below one percent of the annual revenues of each of those companies, the threshold set forth in the Director
Independence Guidelines. The Board also considered charitable contributions to not-for-profit organizations with which our directors or immediate family members are affiliated,
none of which approached the threshold set forth in our Director Independence Guidelines. 
        As
a result of this review, the Board affirmatively determined that the following directors are independent under these Guidelines: Linda G. Alvarado, Vance D. Coffman, Michael L. Eskew,
W. James Farrell, Herbert L. Henkel, Muhtar Kent, Edward M. Liddy, Robert S. Morrison, Aulana L.
Peters, and Robert J. Ulrich. The Board has also determined that no members of the Audit Committee received any compensation from the Company other than directors' fees. Inge G. Thulin, Chairman of
the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, is considered to not be independent because of his employment by the Company. 
11



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Director Nomination Process     
 Role of the Nominating and Governance Committee  
        The Nominating and Governance Committee (the "Committee") identifies individuals who the Committee believes are qualified to become
Board members in accordance with the Board Membership Criteria set forth below, and recommends selected individuals to the Board for nomination to stand for election at the next meeting of
stockholders of the Company in which directors will be elected. In the event there is a vacancy on the Board between meetings of stockholders, the Committee seeks to identify individuals who the
Committee believes are qualified to become Board members in accordance with the Board Membership Criteria set forth below, and may recommend one or more of such individuals for appointment to the
Board. 
 Nominees Proposed by Stockholders for Consideration by the Committee  
        The Committee has a policy to consider properly submitted stockholder recommendations for candidates for membership on the Board of
Directors. Stockholders proposing individuals for consideration by the Committee must include at least the following information about the proposed nominee: the proposed nominee's name, age, business
or residence address, principal occupation or employment, and whether such person has given
written consent to being named in the Proxy Statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected. Stockholders should send the required information about the proposed nominee to: 

Corporate
Secretary
3M Company
3M Center
Building 220-13E-34
St. Paul, MN 55144-1000. 

        In
order for an individual proposed by a stockholder to be considered by the Committee for recommendation as a Board nominee for the 2014 Annual Meeting, the Corporate Secretary must
receive the proposal by November 27, 2013. Such proposals must be sent via registered, certified, or express mail (or other means that allows the stockholder to determine when the proposal was
received by the Company). The Corporate Secretary will send properly submitted stockholder proposed nominations to the Committee Chair for consideration at a future Committee meeting. Individuals
proposed by stockholders in accordance with these procedures will receive the same consideration that individuals identified to the Committee through other means receive. 
 Stockholder Nominations  
        In addition, 3M's Bylaws permit stockholders to nominate directors at an Annual Meeting of stockholders or at a special meeting at
which directors are to be elected in accordance with the notice of meeting. Stockholders intending to nominate a person for election as a director must comply with the requirements set forth in the
Company's Bylaws. With respect to nominations to be acted upon at our 2014 Annual Meeting, our Bylaws would require, among other things, that the Corporate Secretary receive written notice from the
record stockholder no earlier than January 14, 2014, and no later than February 13, 2014. The notice must contain the information required by the Bylaws, a copy of which is available on
our Web site at www.3M.com, under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance. Nominations received after February 13, 2014, will not be acted upon
at the 2014 Annual Meeting. 
 Board Membership Criteria  
        3M's Corporate Governance Guidelines contain Board Membership Criteria which include a list of skills and characteristics expected to
be represented on 3M's Board. The Committee periodically 
12



 
Table of Contents
reviews
with the Board the appropriate skills and characteristics required of Board members given the current Board composition. It is the intent of the Board that the Board, itself, will be a high
performance organization creating competitive advantage for the Company. To perform as such, the Board will be comprised of individuals who have distinguished records of leadership and success in
their arena of activity and who will make substantial contributions to Board operations and effectively represent the interests of all stockholders. The Committee's and the Board's assessment of Board
candidates includes, but is not limited to, consideration of: 


(i)Roles
and contributions valuable to the business community;
(ii)Personal
qualities of leadership, character, judgment, and whether the candidate possesses and maintains throughout service on the Board a reputation in
the community at large of integrity, trust, respect, competence, and adherence to the highest ethical standards;
(iii)Relevant
knowledge and diversity of background and experience in such things as business, manufacturing, technology, finance and accounting, marketing,
international business, government, and the like; and
(iv)Whether
the candidate is free of conflicts and has the time required for preparation, participation, and attendance at all meetings. 

        In
addition to these minimum requirements, the Committee will also evaluate whether the nominee's skills are complementary to the existing Board members' skills, the Board's needs for
particular expertise in fields such as business, manufacturing, technology, finance and accounting, marketing, international business, government, or other areas of expertise, and assess the nominee's
impact on Board dynamics and effectiveness. 
 Diversity  
        The Board of Directors values diversity as a factor in selecting nominees to serve on the Board because its experience is that
diversity provides significant benefit to the Board and the Company. Although there is no specific policy on diversity, the Committee considers the Board Membership Criteria in selecting nominees for
directors, including diversity of background and experience. Such considerations may include gender, race, national origin, functional background, executive or professional experience, and
international experience. 
 Identification, Evaluation, and Selection of Nominees  
        The Committee periodically reviews the appropriate size and composition of the Board and anticipates future vacancies and needs of the
Board. In the event the Committee recommends an increase in the size of the Board or a vacancy occurs, the Committee considers qualified nominees from several sources, including current Board members
and nominees recommended by stockholders and other persons. 
        The
Committee may from time to time retain a director search firm to help the Committee identify qualified director nominees for consideration by the Committee. The Committee retained
SpencerStuart in 2012 to help identify future board candidates. 
        The
Committee evaluates qualified director nominees at regular or special Committee meetings against the Board Membership Criteria described above then in effect and reviews qualified
director nominees with the Board. The Committee and the Chairman of the Board interview candidates that meet the Board Membership Criteria and the Committee selects nominees that best suit the Board's
current needs and recommends one or more of such individuals for election to the Board. 
13



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Board's Role in Risk Oversight     
        The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee through its charter the primary responsibility for the oversight of risks facing the
Company. The charter provides that the Audit Committee shall "discuss policies and procedures with respect to risk assessment and risk management, the Company's major risk exposures and the steps
management has taken to monitor and mitigate such exposures." 
        The
Vice President and General Auditor, Corporate Auditing ("Auditor"), whose appointment and performance is reviewed and evaluated by the Audit Committee and who has direct reporting
obligations to the Audit Committee, is responsible for leading the formal risk assessment and management process within the Company. The Auditor, through consultation with the Company's senior
management, periodically assesses the major risks facing the Company and works with those executives responsible for managing each specific risk. The Auditor periodically reviews with the Audit
Committee the major risks facing the Company and the steps management has taken to monitor and mitigate those risks. The Auditor's risk management report, which is provided in advance of the meeting,
is reviewed with the entire Board by either the Chair of the Audit Committee or the Auditor. The executive responsible for managing a particular risk may also report to the full Board on how the risk
is being managed and mitigated. 
        While
the Board's primary oversight of risk is with the Audit Committee, the Board has delegated to other committees the oversight of risks within their areas of responsibility and
expertise. For example, the Compensation Committee oversees the risks associated with the Company's compensation practices, including an annual review of the Company's risk assessment of its
compensation policies and practices for its employees. The Finance Committee oversees risks associated with the Company's capital structure, its credit ratings and its cost of capital,
long-term benefit obligations, and the Company's use of or investment in financial products, including derivatives used to manage risk related to foreign currencies, commodities, and
interest rates. The Nominating and Governance Committee oversees the risks associated with the Company's overall governance and its succession planning process to understand that the Company has a
slate of future, qualified candidates for key management positions. 
        The
Board believes that its oversight of risks, primarily through delegation to the Audit Committee, but also through delegation to other committees to oversee specific risks within
their areas of responsibility and expertise, and the sharing of information with the full Board, is appropriate for a
diversified technology and manufacturing company like 3M. The chair of each committee that oversees risk provides a summary of the matters discussed with the committee to the full Board following each
committee meeting. The minutes of each committee meeting are also provided to all Board members. The Board also believes its oversight of risk is enhanced by its current leadership structure
(discussed above) because the CEO, who is ultimately responsible for the Company's management of risk, also chairs regular Board meetings, and with his in-depth knowledge and understanding
of the Company, is best able to bring key business issues and risks to the Board's attention. 
 
 
  3M Business Conduct Policies     
        More than a century of operating with honesty and integrity has earned 3M trust from our customers, credibility with our communities,
and dedication from our employees. All of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Accounting Officer, are required to abide by 3M's business conduct
policies to ensure that our business is conducted in a consistently legal and ethical manner. These policies form the foundation of a comprehensive process that includes compliance with corporate
policies and procedures and a companywide focus on uncompromising honesty and integrity in every aspect of our operations. Our business conduct policies cover many topics, including antitrust and
competition law, conflicts of interest, financial reporting, protection of 
14



 
Table of Contents
confidential
information, and compliance with all laws and regulations applicable to the conduct of our business. 
        Employees
are required to report any conduct that they believe in good faith to be an actual or apparent violation of the business conduct policies. The Audit Committee has adopted
procedures to receive, retain, and treat complaints received regarding accounting, internal accounting controls, or auditing matters, and to allow for the confidential and anonymous submission by
employees or others of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters. Information on how to submit any such communications can be found on 3M's Web site at
http://www.3M.com/busconducttrain/. 
        The
Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for directors of the Company. This Code incorporates long-standing principles of conduct the Company
and the Board follow to ensure the Company's business and the activities of the Board are
conducted with integrity, adherence to the highest ethical standards, and in compliance with the law. 
        The
Company's Business Conduct Policies for employees and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors are available on our Web site at www.3M.com
under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance. 
 
 
  Related Person Transaction Policy and Procedures     
        The Board of Directors has adopted a written Related Person Transaction Policy which is administered by the Nominating and Governance
Committee. This Policy applies to any transaction or series of transactions in which the Company or a subsidiary is a participant, the amount involved exceeds $120,000, and a Related Person (as that
term is defined in the Policy) has a direct or indirect material interest. Transactions that fall within this definition are referred to the Committee for approval, ratification, or other action.
Based on its consideration of all of the relevant facts and circumstances, the Committee decides whether or not to approve a transaction and approves only those transactions that are in the best
interests of the Company. In the course of its review and approval or ratification of a transaction, the Committee considers: 


1.the
nature of the Related Person's interest in the transaction;
2.the
material terms of the transaction, including whether the transaction is on terms no less favorable than terms generally available to an unaffiliated
third party under the same or similar circumstances;
3.the
significance of the transaction to the Related Person;
4.the
significance of the transaction to the Company;
5.whether
the transaction would impair the judgment of a director or executive officer to act in the best interest of the Company; and
6.any
other matters the Committee deems appropriate. 

        Any
Committee member who is a Related Person with respect to a transaction under review may not participate in the deliberations or vote respecting such approval or ratification;
provided, however, that such director may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Committee which considers the transaction. 
 
 
  Policy on Adoption of a Rights Plan     
        In 2002 and 2003, a 3M stockholder submitted a shareholder proposal to 3M regarding the approval process for adopting a stockholders'
rights plan (also known as a "poison pill"). 3M does not have a rights plan and is not currently considering adopting one. The Board continues to believe, however, that there may be circumstances
under which adoption of a rights plan would be necessary to give the Board 
15



 
Table of Contents
the
negotiating power and leverage to obtain the best result for 3M stockholders in the context of a takeover effort. 
        Following
consideration of the favorable vote the stockholder proposal received and in light of this belief, the Board adopted and has reaffirmed a statement of policy on this topic. The
Board's policy is that it will only adopt a rights plan if either (1) stockholders have approved adoption of the rights plan or (2) the Board in its exercise of its fiduciary
responsibilities, including a majority of the independent members of the Board, makes a determination that, under the circumstances existing at the time, it is in the best interests of 3M's
stockholders to adopt a rights plan without the delay in adoption that would come from the time reasonably anticipated to seek stockholder approval. 
        The
Board has directed the Nominating and Governance Committee to review this policy statement on an annual basis and to report to the Board on any recommendations it may have concerning
the policy. The terms of the policy, as in effect, are included in 3M's published Corporate Governance Guidelines and its Proxy Statement. 
16




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP     
        The Board currently has eleven directors and the following four Committees: Audit, Compensation, Finance, and Nominating and
Governance. George Buckley retired from the Board when his term expired on May 8, 2012. On February 5, 2013, the Board of Directors elected Muhtar Kent as a director and appointed him as
a member of the Audit and Finance committees effective April 1, 2013. The membership during 2012 and the function of each Committee are described below. 
        During
2012, the Board of Directors held six regularly scheduled meetings and two telephonic meetings. Overall attendance at Board and committee meetings was 98 percent. Seven
directors attended 100 percent and four directors attended an average of approximately 94 percent of the meetings of the Board and Board committees on which they served in 2012. 
        The
Company has a long-standing policy that directors are expected to attend the Annual Meeting of Stockholders unless extenuating circumstances prevent them from attending.
All directors attended last year's Annual Meeting of Stockholders. 
        The
Board and each Committee conducted an evaluation of their performance in 2012. 

















 


Name of Non-Employee Director
 
Audit
 
Compensation
 
Finance
 
Nominating
and
Governance


 


 



 Linda G. Alvarado
 
   X   
 
 
 
   X   
 
 


 


 Vance D. Coffman
 
 
 
   X *
 
 
 
   X   


 


 



 Michael L. Eskew
 
   X   
 
 
 
   X *
 
 


 


 W. James Farrell
 
   X   
 
 
 
   X   
 
 


 


 



 Herbert L. Henkel
 
   X *
 
 
 
 
 
   X   


 


 Edward M. Liddy
 
 
 
   X   
 
 
 
   X   


 


 



 Robert S. Morrison
 
 
 
   X   
 
 
 
   X *


 


 Aulana L. Peters
 
 
 
   X   
 
   X   
 
 


 


 



 Robert J. Ulrich
 
 
 
   X   
 
 
 
   X   


 




X =
Committee Member; * = Chair 
 
 
  Audit Committee     
        In 2012, the Audit Committee met eight times. The Committee assists the Board in its oversight of the integrity of the Company's
financial statements, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the qualifications, independence, and performance of the Company's independent registered public accounting firm (the
"Independent Accounting Firm"), the performance of the Company's internal auditing department, and furnishes a report for inclusion in the Company's Proxy Statement. In addition, the
Committee:


•Reviews the Company's annual audited and quarterly consolidated financial statements;  
•Reviews the Company's financial reporting process and disclosure and internal controls and procedures, including major
issues regarding accounting principles and financial statement presentation, and critical accounting policies to be used in the consolidated financial statements;  
•Reviews and discusses with management and the Independent Accounting Firm the Company's internal controls report and the
Independent Accounting Firm's audit of internal controls over financial reporting; 
•By delegation to the chair, reviews earnings press releases prior to issuance; 

17



 
Table of Contents


•Appoints, oversees, and approves compensation of the Independent Accounting Firm;  
•Reviews with the Independent Accounting Firm the scope of the annual audit, including fees and staffing, and approves all
audit and permissible non-audit services provided by the Independent Accounting Firm; 
•Reviews findings and recommendations of the Independent Accounting Firm and management's response to the recommendations
of the Independent Accounting Firm; 
•Discusses policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management, the Company's major risk exposures, and the steps
management has taken to monitor and mitigate such exposures; 
•Periodically obtain reports from the Company's senior internal auditing executive, who has direct reporting obligations to
the Committee, on the results of internal audits; and 
•Periodically obtain reports from the Company's Chief Compliance Officer, who has direct reporting obligations to the
Committee, on compliance, and at least annually, on the implementation and effectiveness of the Company's compliance and ethics program. 

        The
Board of Directors has determined that all of the Audit Committee members (including Muhtar Kent, who joins the Audit Committee on April 1, 2013) are "independent,"
"financially literate," and have "accounting or related financial management expertise" under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The Board has also determined that all of the Audit
Committee members — Herbert L. Henkel (chair), Linda G. Alvarado, Michael L. Eskew, W. James Farrell, and Muhtar Kent — are "audit committee financial experts" as
that term is defined by applicable Securities and Exchange Commission regulations. The charter of the Audit Committee is available at www.3M.com under Investor
Relations — Corporate Governance — Committee Charters. 
 
 
  Compensation Committee     
        In 2012, the Compensation Committee met seven times. The Committee reviews the Company's compensation practices and policies, annually
reviews and approves (subject to ratification by the independent directors of the Board) the compensation for the CEO, annually reviews and approves the compensation for the other senior executives,
evaluates CEO performance, reviews and discusses with management of the Company the Compensation Discussion and Analysis prepared in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission's disclosure
rules for executive compensation, and furnishes a report for inclusion in the Company's Proxy Statement. In addition, the Committee:


•Reviews disclosures in the Company's Proxy Statement regarding advisory votes on executive compensation and the frequency
of such votes; 
•Approves the adoption, amendment, and termination of incentive compensation and deferred compensation programs for
employees of the Company; 
•Approves, subject to ratification by the independent directors of the Board, employment agreements and severance
arrangements for the CEO, as appropriate; 
•Approves employment agreements and severance arrangements for the senior executives of the Company (other than the CEO),
as appropriate; 
•Interprets and supervises the administration of the Company's stock and long-term incentive compensation
programs, and determines the employees who receive awards and the size of their awards under such programs; 
•Reviews and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning the design of the pension and other postretirement
benefit plans that have a material financial impact upon the Company; 

18



 
Table of Contents


•Annually reviews a risk assessment of the Company's compensation policies and practices for its employees; and  
•Periodically reviews human resource issues relating to the Company's policies and practices with respect to workforce
diversity and equal employment opportunities. 

        The
Board of Directors has determined that all Compensation Committee members are "independent" under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards, including the listing standards
applicable to compensation committee members. The Board has also determined that each Compensation Committee member qualifies as a "Non-Employee Director" under
Rule 16b-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that each member (except Robert S. Morrison due to his service in 2005 as interim CEO), qualifies as an "outside director"
under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. As a result, Mr. Morrison may participate in the discussion, but cannot vote on the Committee's decisions involving performance-based
compensation. The charter of the Compensation Committee is available at www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance —
Committee Charters. 
 
 
  Finance Committee     
        In 2012, the Finance Committee met five times. The Committee assists the Board with its oversight of the Company's financial structure,
including its overall capital structure, sources and uses of funds, the Company's financial condition and capital strategy, and financial risk management. In addition, the
Committee:


•Reviews and recommends for approval by the Board the dividend policy and the declaration of dividends or other forms of
distributions on the Company's stock, such as stock splits in the form of a stock dividend; 
•Reviews and recommends for approval by the Board the repurchase of the Company's stock;  
•Reviews and recommends for approval by the Board the Company's short- and long-term borrowings;  
•Reviews and recommends for approval by the Board the registration and issuance of the Company's debt or equity securities,
except in the case of the issuance of debt or equity securities in connection with a merger or acquisition transaction which is presented to the Board;  
•Periodically reviews the Company's ratings from credit rating agencies;  
•Reviews and recommends for approval by the Board an annual capital expenditure budget and revisions to that budget;  
•Reviews and recommends for approval by the Board capital expenditures in excess of $75,000,000;  
•Reviews and evaluates any risks associated with the Company's use of or investment in financial products, including
derivatives used to manage risk related to foreign currencies, commodity prices, and interest rates; 
•Periodically reviews the Company's insurance coverage; and 
•Periodically reviews the funding of the Company's pension and other benefit plans. 

        The
Board of Directors has determined that all Finance Committee members are "independent" under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The charter of the Finance Committee is
available at www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — Committee Charters. 
19



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Nominating and Governance Committee     
        In 2012, the Nominating and Governance Committee met six times. The Committee establishes Board membership criteria, assists the Board
by identifying individuals qualified to become Board members, recommends to the Board matters of corporate governance, facilitates the annual review of the performance of the Board and its Committees,
and periodically reviews CEO and management succession plans. In addition, the Committee:


•Selects and recommends candidates to the Board of Directors to be submitted for election at the Annual Meeting and
candidates to fill any vacancies on the Board, including stockholder nominees for director (submitted in accordance with the Company's Bylaws). The Committee considers all candidates in light of the
Board membership criteria adopted by the Board of Directors; 
•Reviews and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning the composition and size of the Board and its
Committees, Board membership criteria, frequency of meetings, and recommends to the Board changes in compensation for nonemployee directors; 
•Reviews the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines at least annually, and recommends any proposed changes to the Board
for approval; 
•Develops and recommends to the Board standards to be applied in making determinations on the types of relationships that
constitute material relationships between the Company and a director for purposes of determining director independence; 
•Reviews and approves or ratifies any transaction between the Company and any related person, which is required to be
disclosed under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission; 
•Develops and recommends to the Board for its approval an annual self-assessment process of the Board and its
Committees and oversees the process; 
•Reviews periodically with the Chairman/CEO succession plans relating to positions held by elected corporate officers, and
makes recommendations to the Board with respect to the selection of individuals to occupy these positions; 
•Periodically reviews the corporate contribution program and the activities of the 3M Foundation; and  
•Periodically reviews the Company's positions and engagement on important public policy issues affecting its business,
including the political contributions of 3M and its Political Action Committee. 

        The
Board of Directors has determined that all Nominating and Governance Committee members are "independent" under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The charter of the
Nominating and Governance Committee is available at www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — Committee Charters. 
20




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  DIRECTOR COMPENSATION AND STOCK OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES     
        The Nominating and Governance Committee periodically receives reports on the status of Board compensation in relation to other large
U.S. companies and is responsible for recommending to the Board changes in compensation for nonemployee directors. In developing its recommendations, the Committee is guided by the following goals:
compensation should fairly pay directors for work required in a company of 3M's size and scope, a significant portion of the total compensation should be paid in common stock to align directors'
interests with the long-term interests of stockholders, and the structure of the compensation should be simple and transparent. Periodically, at the request of the Committee, Frederic W.
Cook & Co., Inc. conducts a survey of director compensation at other large U.S. companies and provides expert advisory support to the Committee on the compensation of nonemployee
directors. Neither the Company nor the Nominating and Governance Committee has any arrangement with any other compensation consultant who has a role in determining or recommending the amount or form
of
director compensation. Nonemployee directors' compensation includes the following compensation elements: 
        Annual Compensation — In May 2012, the Nominating and Governance Committee considered a board compensation study
prepared by Frederic W. Cook & Co., Inc. As a result of that study, the Committee recommended no increase in nonemployee director compensation. For 2012, the annual compensation
for nonemployee directors was $245,000. Approximately 47 percent of the annual compensation (or $115,000) is payable in cash in four quarterly installments and approximately 53 percent
of the annual compensation (or $130,000) is payable in common stock after the Annual Meeting. In addition, the chairs of the Finance and Nominating and Governance Committees each receive an additional
annual fee of $15,000 and the chairs of the Audit and Compensation Committees each receive an additional annual fee of $20,000. The Lead Director receives an additional annual fee of $25,000. There
are no meeting fees. In lieu of the cash fees, a director may elect to receive common stock of the Company. Nonemployee directors may also voluntarily defer all or part of their annual cash fees or
stock award until they cease to be members of the Board. 

        Deferred Stock — For directors who have made an election to defer their annual stock award or annual cash fees into a
common stock equivalents account ("Deferred Stock"), the Company shall credit their account with a number of 3M common stock equivalents (including fractional share equivalents) equal to the number of
actual shares of 3M common stock which could have been purchased with such deferred amounts on the first day of the calendar quarter using the closing price of 3M common stock on the New York Stock
Exchange on the last business day immediately preceding such date. 3M common stock equivalents having a value equal to dividends paid on 3M common stock shall be credited to such an account on each
dividend payment date. The share equivalents shall be determined by using the closing price of 3M common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the sixth business day preceding the dividend record
date. The Deferred Stock is fully vested upon grant but does not have voting rights. Appropriate adjustments shall be made to the accounts for stock splits, stock dividends, merger, consolidation,
payment of dividends in other than cash, and similar circumstances affecting 3M common stock. The Deferred Stock will be distributed in 3M common stock to nonemployee directors beginning on
January 1 of the year following the year in which they leave the Board in a lump sum or up to ten annual installments pursuant to their deferral elections. 

        All Other Compensation — The column below showing "All Other Compensation" includes matching gifts. The nonemployee
directors are eligible to participate in the Company's matching gift program on the same terms as 3M employees. Under this program, the 3M Foundation will match up to a total of $10,000 a year in
contributions by the director to eligible institutions of higher education. 
21



 
Table of Contents
        The
total 2012 compensation of our nonemployee directors is shown in the following table: 

















 


Nonemployee Directors
 
Fees Earned
Or Paid in
Cash ($)(1)
 
Stock
Awards ($)(2)
 
All Other
Compensation
($)(3)
 
Total
($)


 


 



 Linda G. Alvarado
 
115,000
 
130,000
 
     —
 
245,000


 


 Vance D. Coffman*
 
156,640
 
130,000
 
10,000
 
296,640


 


 



 Michael L. Eskew*
 
133,360
 
130,000
 
1,500
 
264,860


 


 W. James Farrell
 
115,000
 
130,000
 
     —
 
245,000


 


 



 Herbert L. Henkel*
 
135,000
 
130,000
 
     —
 
265,000


 


 Edward M. Liddy
 
115,000
 
130,000
 
     —
 
245,000


 


 



 Robert S. Morrison*
 
130,000
 
130,000
 
10,000
 
270,000


 


 Aulana L. Peters
 
115,000
 
130,000
 
10,000
 
255,000


 


 



 Robert J. Ulrich
 
115,000
 
130,000
 
     —
 
245,000


 






*Committee
Chair
(1)This
column reports the amount of all fees earned or paid in cash for services as a director.
(2)This
column represents the grant date fair value of the stock awards made in 2012, computed in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board
Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, Compensation — Stock Compensation. The Company does not grant stock options to nonemployee directors except that Robert S. Morrison has
92,632 fully-vested stock options outstanding, which were previously granted to him as interim Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company from June 30 to
December 6, 2005. Since all stock awards vest on the grant date, there are no unvested stock awards outstanding at year end.
(3)This
column includes participation in the Company's matching gift program with Vance D. Coffman, Robert S. Morrison, and Aulana Peters participating at the
$10,000 level, and Michael L. Eskew participating at the $1,500 level. 

        Stock Ownership Guidelines.    The Board requires that each director retain the stock portion (currently valued at $130,000) of the annual
compensation
issued on or after October 1, 2007, until the director leaves the Board. Information regarding accumulated stock and deferred stock units is set forth in the section entitled "Information on
Stock Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers." 
22




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  PROPOSALS TO BE VOTED ON  PROPOSAL NO. 1     ELECTION OF THE ELEVEN DIRECTORS IDENTIFIED IN THIS PROXY STATEMENT     
        At the 2013 Annual Meeting, eleven directors are to be elected to hold office until the 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and until
their successors have been elected and qualified. All nominees are presently 3M directors who were elected by stockholders at the 2012 Annual Meeting, except Muhtar Kent who was elected to the Board
in February 2013 and who is standing for election for the first time. The independent directors who are members of the Nominating and Governance Committee, working with a third-party search firm,
identified and the Committee recommended Mr. Kent to the Board. We expect each nominee for election as a director to be able to serve if elected. If any nominee is not able to serve, proxies
will be voted in favor of the remainder of those nominated and may be voted for substitute nominees, unless the Board
chooses to reduce the number of directors serving on the Board. Each nominee elected as a director will continue in office until his or her successor has been elected and qualified, or until his or
her earlier death, resignation, or retirement. 
        The
Nominating and Governance Committee reviewed the Board Membership Criteria (described in the section of the Proxy Statement entitled "Director Nomination
Process") and the specific experience, qualifications, attributes, and skills of each nominee, including membership(s) on the board of directors of other public companies. The
following pages contain biographical and other information about the nominees. Following each nominee's biographical information, we have provided information concerning the particular experience,
qualifications, attributes and/or skills that led the Nominating and Governance Committee and the Board to determine that each nominee should serve as a Director. In addition, all of our Directors
serve or have served on boards and board committees (including as committee chairs) of other public companies, which the Board believes provides them with additional board leadership and governance
experience, exposure to best practices, and substantial knowledge and skills that further enhance the functioning of our Board. 
 
 
  Nominees for Director:     

















 

  Linda G. Alvarado, 61, President and Chief Executive Officer, Alvarado Construction, Inc., a Denver-based commercial general contractor, construction management and
development company. In 1976, Ms. Alvarado founded Alvarado Construction, Inc. and has overseen the growth of that enterprise as a commercial general contracting and design/build development firm conducting business
across the United States and internationally.
Director since: 2000 Other current directorships: Pitney Bowes, Inc. Other directorships in the past five
years: Lennox International Inc., QWEST Communications International, Inc., and The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc.
Ms. Alvarado's leadership role and experiences in establishing and building successful businesses, including founding and serving as President and Chief Executive Officer of Alvarado Construction, Inc., President of Palo Alto, Inc.,
which owns and operates numerous YUM! Brands restaurants in several states, and co-owner of the Colorado Rockies Major League Baseball Club, her skills in operations, financial and audit matters, and her experiences as a director at the public
companies listed above, qualify her to serve as a director of 3M.




23



 
Table of Contents

















 

  Vance D. Coffman, 68, Retired Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Lockheed Martin Corporation, a high technology aerospace and defense company. Dr. Coffman served in various executive capacities at Lockheed Martin Corporation before becoming Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 1998. He retired as Chief Executive Officer in 2004 and as Chairman of the Board in 2005.
Director since: 2002 Other current directorships: Amgen Inc. (Lead Director) and Deere & Company
Dr. Coffman's Bachelor of Science degree in Aerospace Engineering from Iowa State University and his Masters and Doctoral degrees in Aeronautics and Astronautics from Stanford University and his various leadership roles and experiences at
Lockheed Martin, including serving as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, his role in the integration of Lockheed and Martin Marietta Corporations, his understanding of the challenges of managing a complex global organization, the
breadth of his experiences and skills in business and financial matters, and his experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify him to serve as a director of 3M.








 

  Michael L. Eskew, 63, Retired Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, United Parcel Service, Inc., a provider of specialized transportation and logistics
services. Mr. Eskew was appointed Executive Vice President in 1999 and Vice Chairman in 2000 before becoming Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of UPS in January 2002. He retired as Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer at the end of 2007 but remained as a director of UPS. Director since: 2003 Other current directorships: United Parcel Service,
 Inc., International Business Machines Corp., and Eli Lilly and Company
Mr. Eskew's degree in industrial engineering from Purdue University, his leadership roles and experiences at United Parcel Service, including serving as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, his knowledge of and extensive
experiences in global logistics, his skills in financial and audit matters, and his experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify him to serve as a director of 3M.








 

  W. James Farrell, 70, Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Illinois Tool Works Inc., a multi-national manufacturer of highly engineered fasteners, components,
assemblies and systems. Mr. Farrell served in various executive capacities since joining ITW before becoming Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 1996. He retired as Chief Executive Officer in 2005 and as Chairman in
2006.
Director since: 2006 Other current directorships: Abbott Laboratories and The Allstate Corporation Other directorships in the
past five years: United Continental Holdings, Inc.
Mr. Farrell's Bachelor of Science degree in electrical engineering from the University of Detroit, his leadership roles and experiences at Illinois Tool Works, including serving as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer for over ten
years, his knowledge of and extensive experiences in global diversified manufacturing, his operational expertise and skills in financial and audit matters, and his experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify him to serve
as a director of 3M.




24



 
Table of Contents

















 

  Herbert L. Henkel, 64, Operating Partner, Advent International Corporation, a private equity investment firm. Retired Chairman of the Board,
Ingersoll-Rand plc, a manufacturer of industrial products and components. Mr. Henkel retired as Ingersoll-Rand's Chief Executive Officer, a position he held since October 1999, on February 4, 2010, and retired as Chairman of the Board
on June 3, 2010. Mr. Henkel served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Ingersoll-Rand from April 1999 to October 1999. Mr. Henkel served in various leadership roles at Textron, Inc., including its President and Chief
Operating Officer from 1998-1999.
Director since: 2007 Other current directorships: The Allstate Corporation and C. R. Bard, Inc. (Lead Director) Other
directorships in the past five years: Visteon Corporation
Mr. Henkel's Bachelor's and Master's degrees in Engineering from Polytechnic University of New York and Masters of Business Administration from the Lubin School at Pace University, his leadership roles and experiences at Textron, Inc. and
Ingersoll-Rand, including serving as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, his knowledge of and extensive experiences in engineering, manufacturing, management, sales and marketing in a variety of industries, his skills in financial and
audit matters, and his experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify him to serve as a director of 3M.






 
 Muhtar Kent, 60, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, The Coca-Cola Company, the world's largest beverage company. He has held
the position of Chairman of the Board since April 23, 2009, and the position of Chief Executive Officer since July 1, 2008. From December 2006 through June 2008, Mr. Kent served as President and Chief Operating Officer of The Coca-Cola
Company. From January 2006 through December 2006, Mr. Kent served as President of Coca-Cola International and was elected Executive Vice President of The Coca-Cola Company in February 2006. From May 2005 through January 2006, he was President
and Chief Operating Officer of The Coca-Cola Company's North Asia, Eurasia and Middle East Group, an organization serving a broad and diverse region that included China, Japan, and Russia. Mr. Kent is co-chair of The Consumer Goods Forum, a
fellow of the Foreign Policy Association, a member of the Business Roundtable, a past Chairman of the U.S.-China Business Council, and Chairman Emeritus of the U.S. ASEAN Business Council. He was also appointed as a member of the Eminent Persons
Group for ASEAN by President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton.
New Nominee
Mr. Kent's Bachelor of Science in Economics from Hull University, England, and Master of Science in Administrative Sciences from London City University, his extensive leadership roles and experiences at The Coca-Cola Company across multiple
geographies, and his extensive international experience not only at The Coca-Cola Company but also in the organizations mentioned above, qualify him to serve as a director of 3M.








 

  Edward M. Liddy, 67, Partner, Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, LLC, a private equity investment firm, from April to September 2008 and rejoined
the firm in January 2010. At the request of the Secretary of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Mr. Liddy served as Interim Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of American International Group, Inc. (AIG), a global insurance and financial
services holding company, from September 2008 until August 2009. Mr. Liddy served as Chairman of the Board of The Allstate Corporation, a personal lines insurer, from January 1999 to April 2008 and as its Chief Executive Officer from January
1999 to December 2006.
Director since: 2000 Other current directorships: Abbott Laboratories, AbbVie, Inc., and The Boeing Company Other
directorships in the past five years: The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Mr. Liddy's undergraduate degree from Catholic University and his Masters of Business Administration from George Washington University, his leadership roles and experiences at Sears, Roebuck and Co. as Chief Financial Officer from 1992-1994
and at Allstate as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, his knowledge of and extensive experiences in insurance, his expertise and knowledge of financial and audit matters, and his experiences as a director at the public companies
listed above, qualify him to serve as a director of 3M.




25



 
Table of Contents

















 

  Robert S. Morrison, 70, Retired Vice Chairman of PepsiCo, Inc., a processor of packaged foods and beverages. Mr. Morrison served as Vice
Chairman of PepsiCo, Inc. from 2001 to February 2003. From 1997 until the 2001 merger with PepsiCo, Mr. Morrison was Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Quaker Oats Company. Mr. Morrison served in various leadership
roles at Kraft Foods, Inc. from 1983 to 1997, including its Chief Executive Officer from 1994-1997. From June 30 to December 6, 2005, Mr. Morrison served as interim Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of 3M
Company.
Director since: 2002 Other current directorships: Aon Corporation and Illinois Tool Works Inc. (Non-executive Chairman)
Mr. Morrison's Bachelor of Science degree from the College of the Holy Cross and his Masters of Business Administration from the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, his leadership roles and experiences at Kraft Foods, The Quaker Oats
Company, and PepsiCo, his knowledge of and extensive experiences in managing global consumer products companies, his skills in business and financial matters, and his experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify him to
serve as a director of 3M.








 

  Aulana L. Peters, 71, Retired Partner, Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP. Mrs. Peters is a retired partner of the law firm of Gibson,
Dunn & Crutcher where she was a partner from 1980 to 1984 and 1988 to 2000. From 1984 to 1988, she served as a Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission. From January 2001 to April 2002, Mrs. Peters served as a member of
the Public Oversight Board ("POB") of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Mrs. Peters has also served as a member of the Steering Committee for Financial Accounting Standards Board's Financial Reporting Project and a member
of the POB's Blue Ribbon Panel on Audit Effectiveness. She was also a member of the International Public Interest Oversight Board which oversees the standard setting process of the International Federation of Accountants for auditing, assurance,
independence, and ethics standards. Currently, Mrs. Peters serves on the U.S. Comptroller General's Accountability Advisory Panel.
Director since: 1990 Other current directorships: Deere & Company and Northrop Grumman Corporation Other
directorships in the past five years: Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc.
Mrs. Peters' law degree from the University of Southern California, her experiences as a partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher and as a Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission, her extensive experience and skills in
accounting and audit matters and her experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify her to serve as a director of 3M.








 

  Inge G. Thulin, 59, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of 3M Company. President and Chief
Executive Officer of 3M Company from February 24, 2012, to May 8, 2012. Mr. Thulin served as the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from May 2011 to February 2012, with responsibility for 3M's six business
segments and International Operations. Prior to that, he was Executive Vice President of International Operations from 2004 to 2011. Under his leadership, international sales grew to nearly $20 billion and today represent two-thirds of 3M's
sales. Mr. Thulin also has held numerous leadership positions in Asia Pacific, Europe and Middle East, and across multiple businesses.
Director since: 2012 Other directorships in the past five years: The Toro Company
Mr. Thulin's degrees in Marketing and Economics from Gothenburg University, his 32 year career at 3M with leadership roles across multiple geographies and businesses, his in-depth understanding of 3M's global businesses, his expertise and
knowledge of managing a large global corporation across multiple industries and markets, his skills in business and financial matters, and his experiences as a director at the public company listed above, qualify him to serve as a director of
3M.




26



 
Table of Contents















 
 Robert J. Ulrich, 69, Retired Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Target Corporation, an operator of large-format general
merchandise and food discount stores. Mr. Ulrich began his retailing career as a merchandising trainee in Target's department store division (Dayton Hudson) in 1967 and advanced through various management positions. He
became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Target Stores in 1987 and was elected Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Target Corporation in 1994. Mr. Ulrich retired as Target's Chief Executive Officer on May 1, 2008, and retired as
Chairman of the Board on January 31, 2009.
Director since: 2008
Mr. Ulrich's bachelor of arts degree from the University of Minnesota, his leadership roles and experiences at Dayton Hudson and Target Corporation, his knowledge of and extensive experiences in retailing and in building Target Stores into the
second-largest retailer in the United States, and his skills in business and financial matters, qualify him to serve as a director of 3M.




 
 
  Recommendation of the Board     
        The Board of Directors unanimously recommends a vote "FOR" the election of these nominees as directors. Proxies
solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted "FOR" these nominees unless a stockholder indicates otherwise in voting the proxy.
27




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
 PROPOSAL NO. 2         RATIFICATION OF THE APPOINTMENT OF  INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM FOR 2013     
        The Audit Committee has appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm to audit the
Company's consolidated financial statements for the year ending December 31, 2013. If the stockholders do not ratify the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Audit Committee will
reconsider the selection. 
        During
2012, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP served as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm and also provided certain tax and other audit-related services. For a
description of those services and the fees paid, see section entitled "Fees of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm." 
        Representatives
of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are expected to attend the Annual Meeting where they will be available to respond to questions and, if they desire, to make a
statement. 
 Recommendation of the Audit Committee  
        The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors unanimously recommends a vote "FOR" the ratification of the
appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2013. Proxies solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted "FOR" ratification
unless a stockholder indicates otherwise in voting the proxy.
 
 
 PROPOSAL NO. 3         ADVISORY APPROVAL OF EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION     
        As required by Section 14A of the Securities Exchange Act, the Company is providing its stockholders with the opportunity to
approve, on an advisory basis, the compensation of its executives as described in this Proxy Statement. This is the third year that the Company is asking stockholders to vote on this type of proposal,
known as a "say-on-pay" proposal. The Board has determined to provide the opportunity for stockholders to vote on this type of proposal on an annual basis. At the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders held on May 8, 2012 (the "2012 Annual Meeting"), approximately 94 percent of the shares that were voted on last year's say-on-pay proposal
voted to approve the compensation of the Company's Named Executive Officers as disclosed in last year's Proxy Statement. 
        Thus,
the Company is submitting to stockholders the following resolution for vote by our stockholders: 
        "RESOLVED,
that the stockholders approve, on an advisory basis, the compensation of the Company's Named Executive Officers as disclosed in this Proxy Statement pursuant to the
compensation disclosure rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (including in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, the accompanying compensation tables and related narrative)." 
        As
described in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis portion of this Proxy Statement, 2012 was a year marked by the transition to new leadership and the articulation of new
long-term goals that set the Company on a course to continuing long-term sustainable shareholder value. The Company delivered solid financial results for the year, which
resulted in increased annual incentive compensation for three of the Named Executive Officers and an above-target payout of the 2010 performance shares granted to all of the Named Executive Officers
(which was due in large part to the Company's outstanding financial results during 2010, the first year of the three-year performance period for such performance shares). 3M stockholders
shared in this success by realizing a total shareholder return on their shares of 3M common stock of 16.7 percent during 2012. 
28



 
Table of Contents
        While
the Board of Directors and the Compensation Committee intend to carefully consider the results of the voting on this proposal when making future decisions regarding executive
compensation, the vote is not binding on the Company or the Board and is advisory in nature. 
 Recommendation of the Board  
        The Board of Directors unanimously recommends a vote "FOR" this proposal for the reasons discussed above.
Proxies solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted "FOR" this proposal unless a stockholder indicates otherwise in voting the proxy.
 
 
 PROPOSAL NO. 4         STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL ON ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT     
        3M has received a stockholder proposal from James McRitchie, 9295 Yorkship Court, Elk Grove, California 95758, owner of 50 shares of 3M
common stock (the "Proponent"). The Proponent has requested that the Company include the following proposal and supporting statement (in italics) in its
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The proposal may be voted on at the Annual Meeting only if properly presented by the Proponent or the Proponent's representative. 
 Stockholder Proposal:  
        Resolved, Shareholders request that our board of directors undertake such steps as may be necessary to permit
written consent by shareholders entitled to cast the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize the action at a meeting at which all shareholders entitled to vote thereon were
present and voting. This written consent includes all issues that shareholders may propose. This written consent is to be consistent with applicable law and consistent with giving shareholders the
fullest power to act by written consent consistent with applicable law.
        The shareholders of Wet Seal (WTSLA) successfully used written consent to replace certain underperforming directors in October 2012. This proposal topic also won
majority shareholder support at 13 major companies in a single year. This included 67%-support at both Allstate and Sprint. Hundreds of major companies enable shareholder action by written
consent.
        This proposal should also be evaluated in the context of our Company's overall corporate governance as reported in 2012:
        GMI/The Corporate Library, an independent investment research firm, rated our company "D" with "High Governance Risk" and "High Concern" in Executive
Pay — a whopping $25 million for our former CEO George Buckley. GMI said Mr. Buckley will retire comfortable as he was entitled to a potential payment of
$53 million following his retirement and had $13 million in non-qualified deferred pay plans.
        Directors Vance Coffman, Robert Morrison, Linda Alvarado, Edward Liddy and Aulana Peters each had 10 to 22 years long-tenure. GMI said
long-tenured directors could form relationships that may compromise their independence and therefore hinder their ability to provide effective oversight. Long-tenured directors
controlled 8 of the 14 seats on our most important board committees. Plus 5 of our directors received high negative votes of 10% to 18% and these directors controlled 4 of the 5 seats on our executive
pay committee (not a surprise) and 3 of the 5 seats on our nomination committee. Ms. Peters received our highest negative votes -18%. By comparison some of our directors received
less than 2% in negative votes.
        Vance Coffman, our Lead Director, was negatively flagged by GMI because Bristol-Myers Squibb settled an SEC lawsuit alleging substantial accounting fraud while
Mr. Coffman was chairman of Bristol-Myers' audit committee. James Farrell, on our audit committee, was negatively flagged by GMI due to his involvement with the bankruptcy of UAL Corporation.
Michael Eskew, also on our audit committee, was potentially over-extended with seats on a total of 4 boards — all rated "D" by GMI.
29



 
Table of Contents
        Please encourage our board to respond positively to this proposal to strengthen our corporate governance and protect shareholder value:                                         
        Right to Act by Written Consent — Proposal 4  
 Board's Statement Opposing the Proposal  
        After careful consideration, and for the following reasons, the Board believes that the proposal is not in the best interests of the
Company or its stockholders, and the Board recommends voting "AGAINST" this proposal.  


1.The Board believes matters that are sufficiently important to be subject to a stockholder vote should be communicated to all
stockholders who should be given the opportunity to discuss the proposed action and vote on it at an annual or special meeting. 3M's governing documents require actions subject
to a stockholder vote be considered at a meeting of stockholders. This requirement assures that all stockholders receive advance notice of and have an opportunity to discuss the proposed action. This
process helps ensure that all stockholders have time to consider the proposed action and all points of view before a vote. In contrast, the proposed action by written consent would allow critical
actions to be approved without advance notice to all stockholders or the Company and without benefit of a discussion at a meeting of stockholders. We believe this proposal, if adopted, could
disenfranchise many stockholders — particularly smaller stockholders — and may deprive them of these rights and protections while enabling other
short-term or special interest investors to advance proposals that are not in the best interests of all stockholders. Further, actions by written consent could result in duplicative or
contradictory written consents being circulated at the same time, disrupting management and confusing stockholders.
2.The Company's stockholders have channels outside the Annual Meeting cycle to raise important matters. The
Company's amended Bylaws already give stockholders holding at least 25 percent of the outstanding common shares the ability to call a special meeting. This ability to call a special meeting allows
stockholders to initiate action without waiting for the Company's next Annual Meeting, making action by written consent unnecessary to facilitate prompt action by stockholders. A special meeting is
preferable to action by written consent because a special meeting allows all stockholders to participate in the proposed action and allows the Board to make a considered recommendation regarding the
action. Further, our senior executives periodically discuss stockholder proposals and other governance matters with major institutional stockholders. These mechanisms for stockholders to initiate
action and express their views and concerns to the Company make the proposed written consent procedure unnecessary.
3.The Company's current governance structure, as revised in recent years to incorporate best practices, already makes the Board
responsive to stockholder concerns. 3M's Board of Directors has taken numerous actions (including those proposed by stockholders) to promote effective corporate governance and
accountability to stockholders, including the following:  



•Declassifying the board — In 2006, the Board
recommended and stockholders approved amendments to the Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate the classified board and provide for the annual election of all directors.   
•Lead Director — Since 2006, the Board has appointed a
lead independent director, with responsibilities similar to those typically performed by an independent chairman, including the authority to call and preside over meetings of independent directors,
act as a key liaison between the Chairman/CEO and the independent directors, approve 



30



 
Table of Contents




schedules
and agendas for Board meetings, and approve meeting materials for distribution to the Board.  


•No supermajority voting — In 2007, the Board
recommended and the stockholders approved amendments to the Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate the supermajority vote requirements.   
•Stockholders may call special meetings — In 2008, the
Board amended the Bylaws to provide stockholders holding at least 25 percent of the outstanding common shares the ability to call a special meeting of stockholders.   
•Majority voting — In 2009, the Board amended the Bylaws
to provide for majority voting for directors in uncontested elections.   
•3M's Board is primarily composed of independent directors —  All but one member of 3M's Board are independent directors. 



        The
Board believes in policies and governance practices that serve the interests of the Company and its stockholders as a whole. This proposal would not do so. 
 Recommendation of the Board  
        The Board of Directors unanimously recommends a vote "AGAINST" this proposal for the reasons discussed above.
Proxies solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted "AGAINST" this proposal unless a stockholder indicates otherwise in voting the proxy.
 
 
 PROPOSAL NO. 5         STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL ON PROHIBITING POLITICAL SPENDING  FROM CORPORATE TREASURY FUNDS     
        3M has received a stockholder proposal from Clean Yield Asset Management., 16 Meadow Brook Road, Norwich, VT 05055, on behalf of
David Rodgers, owner of 1,500 shares of 3M common stock (the "Proponent"). The Proponent has requested that the Company include the following proposal and supporting statement
(in italics) in its Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The proposal may be voted on at the Annual Meeting only if properly
presented by the Proponent or the Proponent's representative. 
 Stockholder Proposal:  
 WHEREAS:  
        Corporate political spending is a highly contentious issue, made more prominent in light of the 2010 Citizens
United Supreme Court case that affirmed companies' rights to make unlimited political expenditures to independent groups.
        Corporations contributed to the estimated $6 billion spent on the 2012 electoral cycle through direct contributions to candidates and parties, ballot
referenda, 527 committees and super PACs, as well as indirectly through trade associations and 501(c)4s, which do not have to reveal their donors. For example, the US Chamber of Commerce pledged to
spend $100 million during the 2012 election cycle to support candidates. According to Public Citizen, only 32% of groups broadcasting electioneering communications during the 2010 primaries
revealed the donor identities in their Federal Election Commission filings.
        In February 2010, an ABC News/Washington Post poll found that 80% opposed Citizens United across partisan lines. More recently, between 80-90%
respondents in a Bannon Communications poll agreed, across party lines, with the following statements: there is "too much money in politics"; corporate  
31



 
Table of Contents
 political spending "drowns out the voices of average Americans"; corporations and corporate CEOs have "too much political power and influence"; and corporate political spending has made federal and
state politics more negative and corrupt.
        Political spending can backfire on reputation and bottom line. In 2010, Target and Valero received unwanted attention, consumer boycotts, and protests for their
support of controversial candidates and ballot measures. Seventy nine percent of those polled by Bannon said they would boycott a company to protest its political spending; 65% would sell stock in the
company, and over half would ask their employer to remove it from their retirement account.
        3M and its political action committee have spent over in $1.75 million in donations to federal PACs, parties, candidates and outside spending groups since
2002 (Center for Responsive Politics). At the state level, 3M, its PAC and employees together spent over $875,000 in state races since 2002 (Institute for Money in State Politics). 3M has not
clarified how much of these funds originated from the corporate treasury.
        A growing number of companies have discontinued political spending either directly or through third parties (Sustainable Endowments
Institute).
 RESOLVED:  
        The shareholders request that the board of directors study the feasibility of adopting a policy prohibiting the
use of treasury funds for any direct or indirect political contributions intended to influence the outcome of an election or referendum, and report to shareholders on its findings by October
2013.
 SUPPORTING STATEMENT:  
        Recent academic work has highlighted the risks of corporate political spending to the broader economy (Igan, et
al, 2009), and some studies suggests it correlates negatively with shareholder value (Coates, 2012). Given the risks, potential negative impact, and questionable value of corporate political spending,
we believe it would a prudent policy would include an end to direct political giving, and to end indirect giving by instructing trade associations and other nonprofits not to use 3M's contributions,
dues or fees toward political ends.
 Board's Statement Opposing the Proposal  
        After careful consideration, and for the following reasons, the Board believes that the proposal is not in the best interests of the
Company or its stockholders, and the Board recommends voting "AGAINST" this proposal.  


1.The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the stockholders and the Company for the Company to effectively participate in
the legislative and regulatory process. Elected representatives at all levels of government make laws and regulations that can and do affect the Company's business. To
effectively advocate the Company's and stockholders' interests, we believe we must actively participate in the political process, including by supporting candidates whose views are aligned with the
Company's business interests. 



Our
public policy priorities and our political contributions are focused on the business interests of our Company and stockholders. The Company seeks to support candidates, organizations, and
legislation that will advance the Company's business interests. In some instances, we may support
or oppose proposed regulation to avoid being put at a competitive disadvantage. We recognize that candidates who receive contributions from the Company or its employee-funded Political Action
Committee will not necessarily agree with our positions on all issues. We support candidates who, on balance, support issues and positions that management determines are in the best interests of the
Company, our stockholders, and our employees. 


32



 
Table of Contents


When
making any decisions to support a candidate, organization, or issue, we take into account whether our support could have the unintended effect of damaging the Company's reputation. 
The
proposal also requests the Board to study the "feasibility of adopting a policy" prohibiting use of trade association dues for lobbying activities. The Company participates in a number of industry
and trade associations. These associations offer the Company significant benefits by providing access to business, technical, and industry standard-setting expertise and by advancing the Company's
commercial interests. Some of these associations may engage in lobbying. To increase transparency, we disclose on our Web site the trade associations we joined where $25,000 or more of our dues or
payments are allocated for lobbying purposes by the trade association. We also post on our Web site the Company's positions on important public policy issues to ensure that stakeholders understand our
positions. This information is available on our Web site at www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — "Political
Activities and Issue Advocacy." 
We
recognize that our position on public policy issues does not always perfectly align with those of the trade associations to which we belong; trade associations address a wide range of issues and
their members have divergent views and interests. For these reasons, we periodically evaluate our memberships in trade associations to ensure that, on balance, they continue to serve the
long-term interests of our Company and stockholders. To study these issues further will simply result in unnecessary costs with no offsetting benefits.  


2.The Company's political contributions strictly comply with the law and Company policy. As we participate in
the electoral process, the Company is committed to following all applicable laws and our own standards of uncompromising honesty and integrity. The Company has for many years maintained (and publishes
on www.3M.com/businessconduct) a Business Conduct Policy on political activities guiding 3M employees and those acting on our behalf with regard to political activities.
Consistent with federal law, the Company does not make contributions to candidates for federal office or to national political party committees. Some states and localities allow companies to make
contributions, and in those states we may support particular candidates or issues if management determines doing so advances the Company's and stockholders' business interests. Since 2002, 3M has
contributed less than $100,000 per year to state and local candidates and party committees. 



The
Company's Political Action Committee (PAC) is a nonpartisan committee established by the Company in accordance with federal law. The PAC is governed by a committee comprised of Company employees
and funded solely by the voluntary personal contributions of management and supervisory employees and stockholders. The PAC makes direct contributions to the campaigns of candidates seeking federal
offices, as well as to selected state and local campaigns where such contributions are allowed. The PAC's activities are overseen by senior executives in compliance with applicable laws and
regulations. PAC contributions are made on a nonpartisan basis to support candidates who support business issues important to the Company and its stockholders. In 2012, PAC contributions to candidate
committees totaled approximately $210,000.  


3.The Company discloses on its Web site all contributions to state and local candidates and political parties, contributions made by
our employee-funded PAC, and contributions to "527" political organizations. The Company believes that transparency with respect to the consideration, processes, and oversight
of our engagement with lawmakers is important to our stockholders, and continuously makes efforts to give our stockholders useful information about our political activities. Since 2007 (updated
several times since then), the Company has voluntarily published a detailed explanation of the Company's political activities which is 

33



 
Table of Contents


available
on our Web site at www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — "Political Activities and Issue Advocacy."
There, the Company sets out in detail its positions on important public policy issues, the factors we consider when making political contributions, and the processes we use for legal, financial,
executive, and board oversight
of our political activities and contributions. We also provide links to the reports the 3M PAC files monthly with the Federal Election Commission and the Company's quarterly Lobbying Disclosure
reports, as well as a detailed list of our contributions to state candidates and political parties, and contributions to "527" political organizations. The Company believes that these disclosures on
our Web site, which exceed the disclosures required by law, offer transparency respecting the Company's political activities. 


 Recommendation of the Board  
        The Board of Directors unanimously recommends a vote "AGAINST" this proposal for the reasons discussed above.
Proxies solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted "AGAINST" this proposal unless a stockholder indicates otherwise in voting the proxy.
34




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  INFORMATION ON STOCK OWNERSHIP OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS     
        The following table includes all 3M stock-based holdings, as of February 28, 2013, of the directors and the Named Executive
Officers set forth in the Summary Compensation Table, and the directors and executive officers as a group. 
 
 
  Common Stock and Total Stock-Based Holdings     

















 


Name and Principal Position



 
Stock(1) 
 
Restricted
Stock
Units(2) 
 
Deferred
Stock(3) 
 
Total(4) 


 Linda G. Alvarado, Director
 
       13,918
 
        —
 
    9,583     
 
      23,501


 Vance D. Coffman, Director
 
         5,843
 
         —
 
   27,742     
 
       33,585


 Michael L. Eskew, Director
 
             —
 
         —
 
   22,410     
 
       22,410


 W. James Farrell, Director
 
             —
 
         —
 
   11,091     
 
       11,091


 Herbert L. Henkel, Director
 
             —
 
         —
 
   18,876     
 
       18,876


 Edward M. Liddy, Director
 
             —
 
         —
 
  37,565     
 
       37,565


 Robert S. Morrison, Director
 
       97,168
 
         —
 
   25,020     
 
    122,188


 Aulana L. Peters, Director
 
         5,370
 
         —
 
   47,322     
 
       52,692


 Robert J. Ulrich, Director
 
         8,503
 
         —
 
     6,161     
 
       14,664


 Inge G. Thulin, Director,
Chairman of the Board, President and
Chief Executive Officer
 
     561,517
 
          24
 
         —     
 
      561,541


 George W. Buckley, Former Director and
Executive Chairman of the Board (effective May 8, 2012)
 
     961,848
 
   14,125
 
  25,660(5)
 
  1,001,633


 David W. Meline,
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 
      75,160
 
     7,268
 
   11,487     
 
       93,915


 Ivan K. Fong,
Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel
 
           665
 
   11,205
 
   —
 
       11,870


 Hak Cheol Shin,
Executive Vice President
 
    373,175
 
     2,720
 
    —
 
    375,895


 Brad T. Sauer,
Executive Vice President
 
    371,681
 
         —
 
    —
 
    371,681


 All Directors and Executive Officers as a Group (25 persons)(6)
 
  3,780,253
 
  112,221
 
  255,452     
 
  4,147,926


 




FOOTNOTES
TO COMMON STOCK AND TOTAL STOCK-BASED HOLDINGS TABLE 
        (1)   This column lists beneficial ownership of 3M common stock as calculated under Securities and Exchange Commission rules.
Unless otherwise noted, voting power and investment power in the shares are exercisable solely by the named person, and none of the shares are pledged as security by the named person. As disclosed in
last year's Proxy Statement, Mr. Buckley had pledged 39,000 shares to secure a financing arrangement prior to the Compensation Committee's action in May 2012 to completely prohibit such
pledging in the future by the Directors and Executive Officers of the Company. In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission rules, this column also includes shares that 
35



 
Table of Contents
may
be acquired pursuant to stock options that are or will be exercisable within 60 days of February 28, 2013, as follows: Mr. Thulin (506,973), Mr. Buckley (720,599),
Mr. Meline (62,748), Mr. Shin (324,871), Mr. Sauer (349,144), and Mr. Morrison (92,632). Mr. Morrison's options were granted during his service as interim CEO from
June 30 to December 6, 2005. This column includes the following shares over which the identified Director has shared voting and investment power through family trusts or joint accounts:
Mr. Morrison (3,934) and Mrs. Peters (5,370). 
        (2)   This column reflects restricted stock units that generally vest over a three- to five-year period, assuming
continued employment until each vesting date (or until the individual retires from the Company, in some cases). The Executive Officers do not have voting power with respect to the shares listed in
this column. 
        (3)   This column reflects shares earned by the Directors as a result of their service on the Board of Directors, the payout of
which has been deferred until following the termination of their membership on the Board of Directors. This column also includes the following shares of the Company's common stock which the Executive
Officers are entitled to receive following their retirement from the Company as a result of their election to defer the payout of their 2008 performance share awards under the 3M Performance Unit Plan
and/or the payout of their 2010 performance share awards under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan: Mr. Buckley (25,660), Mr. Meline (11,487), and All Directors and Executive
Officers as a Group (255,452). Neither the Directors nor the Executive Officers have voting power with respect to the shares listed in this column. 
        (4)   This column shows the individual's total 3M stock-based holdings, including the securities shown in the "Stock" column
(as described in note 1), in the "Restricted Stock Units" column (as described in note 2), and in the "Deferred Stock" column (as described in note 3). 
        (5)   Of this total number of shares, beneficial ownership of 4,733 shares earned by Mr. Buckley as a result of his 2008
performance share award under the 3M Performance Unit Plan has been assigned to his former spouse pursuant to their marital dissolution agreement. 
        (6)   All Directors and Executive Officers, as a group, owned beneficially less than one percent of the outstanding common
stock of the Company. 
 
 
  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF MORE THAN 5 PERCENT STOCKHOLDERS     
        The following table sets forth information regarding beneficial ownership of more than 5 percent of the outstanding 3M stock. 













Name/Address



 
Common Stock
Beneficially Owned 
 
Percent of
Class 


 State Street Corporation(1)
State Street Financial Center
One Lincoln Street
Boston, MA 02111
 
51,796,286
 
  7.5


 BlackRock, Inc.(2)
40 East 52nd Street
New York, NY 10022
 
 41,038,740
 
 5.93





        (1)   State Street Corporation ("State Street") reported in a Schedule 13G filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on February 12, 2013, that it held as of December 31, 2012, shared voting and shared dispositive power with respect to 51,796,286 shares of 3M common stock. State Street
serves as trustee for certain 3M savings plans, including the Company's Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan, a 401(k) retirement savings plan. 

36



 
Table of Contents

        (2)   Based on information on a Schedule 13G filed by BlackRock, Inc. with the Securities and Exchange Commission
on February 8, 2013. 

 
 
  SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE     
        Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires our directors and executive officers, and any person owning more
than 10 percent of 3M common stock, to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission reports regarding their ownership and changes in ownership of our stock. As a practical matter, 3M
assists its directors and executive officers by monitoring transactions and completing and filing Section 16 reports on their behalf. 3M believes that during 2012, its directors and executive
officers complied with all Section 16(a) filing requirements. In making this statement, 3M has relied upon examination of the copies of Forms 3, 4, and 5 and the written representations
of its directors and executive officers. 
 
 
  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION     
 
    Compensation Discussion and Analysis     
 Executive Summary  
        When viewed in historical perspective, the year 2012 at 3M will be recognized for the transition to new leadership and the articulation
of new long-term
goals that set the Company on a course to continuing long-term sustainable shareholder value. Inge Thulin became 3M's twelfth President/Chief Executive Officer effective
February 24, 2012, and set in motion a year of significant changes in the Company's structure and strategies. These changes included the launch of a new 3M Vision and the following six
corporate business strategies, a realignment to five market-focused Business Groups effective January 1, 2013 to drive those strategies, and the creation of new operating divisions to pursue
business opportunities in the promising markets of aerospace; defense; and mining, oil and gas. 



37



 
Table of Contents
        The
Company delivered solid financial results during 2012. Highlights of the results that influenced the compensation earned by 3M's executives, including the Named Executive Officers,
are:


•Full-year earnings were $6.32 per share, an increase of 6.0 percent. Correspondingly, 3M's
full-year Economic Profit, a key metric in determining the amount of annual incentive compensation earned by the Company's executives, increased by 2.0 percent from 2011, to a total
of $2.353 billion. 
•Full-year sales increased by 1.0 percent from 2011, to a total of $29.9 billion, despite the
negative impact of foreign currency translation that reduced sales by 2.4 percent year-over-year. Organic local-currency sales volume growth (an important measure in
determining the amount of long-term incentive compensation earned by 3M's executives) was 1.2 percent. 
•Sales from new products, as measured by the New Product Vitality Index (another metric used in determining the amount of
long-term incentive compensation earned by the Company's executives), increased from 32 percent in 2011 to 33 percent in 2012. Sales from new products is an important measure
confirming 3M's ongoing success at innovation and commercialization. 
•Return on invested capital (a third metric applied in determining the amount of long-term incentive
compensation earned by 3M executives) remained strong at 20 percent, which far exceeds the returns generated by most of the companies in 3M's executive compensation peer group. 

        These
solid financial results, when combined with strong individual performances and leadership, as well as compensation increases for individuals assuming new positions to reflect their
increased responsibilities, caused the annual incentive compensation earned by three of 3M's Named Executive Officers (Inge Thulin, David Meline, and Brad Sauer) during 2012 to increase over the
amounts they earned during 2011. Mr. Shin's payout declined due to the 2012 performance of 3M's International Operations as compared to its plan for the year. Mr. Buckley, who retired on
June 1, 2012, did not earn a full year's worth of annual incentive compensation for 2012. Mr. Fong did not receive annual incentive compensation for 2011, since his employment commenced
on October 15, 2012. 
        2012
also marked the final year of the three-year performance period for the 2010 performance shares granted to the Named Executive Officers under the 2008
Long-Term Incentive Plan. When the solid results from 2012 were combined with the Company's even better results in 2010 and 2011, as measured against each of the three criteria established
by the Compensation Committee for determining the payout on these awards (Organic Sales Volume Growth, Return on Invested Capital, and sales from new products as measured by the New Product Vitality
Index), this three-year period of overall strong performance resulted in a payout in 3M shares equal to 138 percent of the number of original performance shares. 
        3M's
common stock provided a total shareholder return (stock price appreciation plus dividends) of 16.7 percent during 2012. As reflected in the following table, 3M's stock
performance (total shareholder return of 26.5 percent over the five years ending December 31, 2012) continues to compare favorably with the stock performance of the peer companies
included in the Company's executive compensation peer group (for which the median total shareholder return over the same five-year period was 24.0 percent). Though the Company's
performance over the three-year period ended December 31, 2012 fell below most of the companies in this peer group, that relative performance is explained by the fact that this
period excludes 3M's strong performance during 2009 (total return of nearly 60 percent) and includes the year 2010 when many of the companies in this peer group experienced rebounding stock
prices as the economy and markets emerged from the global financial crisis of late 2008 and 2009. It also reflects the tendency for the Company's financial performance to recover from periods of
slower growth faster than many of its peers, which is then reflected in its stock price. 
38



 
Table of Contents



 Factors Creating Alignment between Pay and Performance and Balancing Risk  
        3M's executive compensation program is designed to maintain a strong alignment between corporate performance and executive compensation
by tying incentive compensation to the achievement of performance metrics that increase the Company's long-term value. The incentive compensation portion of the program rewards sustainable
performance while also protecting the Company and its stockholders from inappropriate risk-taking and conflicts between the interests of the executives and the interests of the Company and
its stockholders. Highlights of the program include:


•A large portion of each executive's Total Direct Compensation (cash plus long-term incentives) is
performance-based, varying from 88 percent for CEO Inge Thulin to a range of 73-87 percent for the other Named Executive Officers;  
•The incentive compensation provided to the Company's executives use multiple performance-based metrics, which are focused
primarily on growth in revenue and earnings, as well as the efficient use of capital; and 
•Stock ownership guidelines that are designed to align the financial interests of executives with those of the Company's
stockholders. 

39



 
Table of Contents
 Compensation Best Practices  
        3M's executive compensation program incorporates and is administered according to the following best
practices:


•The program is controlled by a Compensation Committee comprised of experienced and independent individuals, assisted by an
independent compensation consultant who provides no other services to the Company or 3M management besides independent advisory support to the Nominating and Governance Committee on the compensation
of the Company's nonemployee directors. 
•The Board of Directors has adopted a comprehensive clawback policy which enables the Company to recover overpayments of
incentive compensation if it is required to make a material restatement of its financial statements. 
•The Company has robust stock ownership guidelines which apply to all Section 16 officers of the Company.  
•The Company does not have arrangements providing for the payment of excise tax gross-ups in the event of a
change in control of the Company. 
•3M provides its executives with a limited number and amount of perquisites, and does not provide tax gross-ups
on any of these perquisites. 
•The Company does not have employment or change in control agreements with any of its senior executives, including its
Chief Executive Officer. 
•3M does not have severance plans or arrangements with any of its senior executives, including its Chief Executive Officer.  
•Equity awards granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan since 2010 have a "double trigger" accelerated
vesting provision in the event of a change in control of the Company, meaning that vesting is accelerated only if an individual's employment is terminated within 18 months following the change
in control. 
•3M prohibits the hedging or pledging of 3M common stock owned by its Section 16 officers. 

 Significant Compensation Actions During the Past Year  
        During 2012 and the first two months of 2013, 3M and the Committee made the following decisions and took the following actions with
respect to the Company's executive compensation program:


•Appointed Inge Thulin as President and Chief Executive Officer and approved his new compensation arrangement (consisting
of an annual base salary of $1,300,000, target annual incentive compensation of $2,000,000, and annual long-term incentive compensation awards with a grant value of $8,000,000).
Mr. Thulin's compensation arrangement includes no employment agreement or supplemental retirement benefits; 
•As part of the Committee's annual review of 3M's executive compensation peer group, removed three companies that no longer
meet the criteria of being investment peers or having market capitalization and annual revenues reasonably similar to 3M, and included five new companies that do meet these criteria;  
•Increased the target percentage for the portion of the Total Cash Compensation delivered in the form of performance-based
annual incentive compensation to 154 percent of annual base salary for Mr. Thulin and 100 percent of annual base salary for Mr. Meline. The Committee also increased the target percentage
for Mr. Shin and Mr. Sauer to 85 percent of their annual base salaries, which 

40



 
Table of Contents


percentage
will be reached over time. Upon commencement of his employment in October, Mr. Fong's target percentage was established at 75 percent of his annual base salary; 


•Increased by 36,000,000 the number of shares of 3M common stock available for issuance or delivery pursuant to awards
granted under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan; 
•Revised the Company's policy on the pledging of shares of 3M common stock to eliminate any exception to the policy's
prohibition of the pledging of such shares by its Section 16 officers and directors following the Committee's action in May 2012; and 
•Revised the formula for determining the amount of compensation earned under the Company's broad-based annual incentive
plan to place greater emphasis upon revenue growth. 

 Principles of 3M's Executive Compensation Program  
        3M believes that the compensation of its executives should be closely tied to the performance and growth of the Company, so that their
interests are aligned with the interests of long-term 3M stockholders. Consistent with this philosophy, the following core principles provide a framework for the Company's executive
compensation program:


•Total Direct Compensation should be competitive to attract the best talent to 3M, motivate executives to perform at their
highest levels, reward individual contributions that improve the Company's ability to deliver outstanding performance, and retain those executives with the leadership abilities and skills necessary
for building long-term stockholder value; 
•The portion of Total Direct Compensation that is performance-based (or varies with performance) and is therefore at risk
should increase with the level of an individual's responsibility; 
•The program should balance incentives for delivering outstanding long-term, sustainable performance and the
potential for encouraging inappropriate risk-taking; 
•The metrics and targets for earning performance-based incentives should be consistent with the Company's business
objectives and increasing stockholder value over the long term; and 
•Executives are most effectively motivated to build long-term stockholder value when a significant portion of
their personal net worth is held in 3M stock. 

 Terms  
        This Compensation Discussion and Analysis uses the following terms when discussing executive compensation of the
Company:


•"Adjusted Net Income" means the net income of 3M as reported in its Consolidated Statement of Income, as adjusted to
exclude special items. 
•"Benchmarking Groups" means both the survey comparator group and 3M's executive compensation peer group of 19 companies,
as described in the "Benchmarking" section of this CD&A. 
•"Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of 3M Company.  
•"Economic Profit" means the after-tax income of the Company or a business unit (operating income, plus
interest income, minus income taxes), adjusted to exclude special items and the impact of acquisitions or divestitures in the year each acquisition or divestiture is completed (unless such acquisition
or divestiture is included in the operating plan for the business), less a charge (10 percent in 2012) for the capital used to generate such after-tax operating income. Company
Economic Profit is calculated using total Company capital, while the Economic Profit of 

41



 
Table of Contents


a
business unit is calculated using only accounts receivable and inventories of such business unit as capital. 


•"Local Currency Sales," a metric used in the Company's annual incentive plans, means the sales of the Company or a
business unit, in local currency, adjusted to exclude the impact of acquisitions or divestitures in the year each acquisition or divestiture is completed (unless such acquisition or divestiture is
included in the operating plan for the business). 
•"Named Executive Officers" means the executives whose compensation is reported in the Summary Compensation Table of this
Proxy Statement. For 2012, these "Named Executive Officers" are Inge G. Thulin, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer; George W. Buckley, retired (effective June 1, 2012)
Executive Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer; David W. Meline, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Ivan K. Fong, Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and
General Counsel; Hak Cheol Shin, Executive Vice President, International Operations; and Brad T. Sauer, Executive Vice President, Industrial Business Group.  
•"New Product Vitality Index" means the percentage of the Company's total sales derived from products introduced within the
last five years. 
•"Organic Sales Volume Growth," a metric used in determining the value of performance shares awarded under the 2008
Long-Term Incentive Plan, means the percentage amount by which the Company's worldwide organic sales growth (sales growth excluding the sales attributable to acquisitions or divestitures
for the 12 months following the date each acquisition or divestiture is completed, and excluding price and currency effects) exceeds worldwide real sales growth as reflected in the worldwide
Industrial Production Index, as published by Global Insight. 
•"Return on Invested Capital" means the after-tax income of the Company (operating income, plus interest
income, minus income taxes), adjusted to exclude special items and the impact of acquisitions or divestitures in the year each acquisition or divestiture is completed, divided by the average quarterly
operating capital of the Company (total assets, minus total liabilities other than debt). 
•"Total Cash Compensation" means the total of an individual's base salary and annual incentive compensation.  
•"Total Direct Compensation" means the total of an individual's Total Cash Compensation plus the grant value of their
annual long-term incentive compensation awards (which is based on their grant date fair value as measured under accounting standards). 

 Benchmarking  
        In order to provide competitive Total Direct Compensation, 3M annually surveys the executive compensation practices of a large group of
comparator companies (approximately 160, although the number and identity of the companies may vary from year to year). Survey data is statistically regressed to recognize the different sizes of the
comparator companies (based on annual revenues) as compared to the size of 3M. The survey data is obtained from three consulting firms (Aon Hewitt, Frederic W. Cook & Co., Inc.,
and Towers Watson). The survey comparator group consists of companies in the Dow Jones Industrial Average (excluding financial services companies), and other companies with annual revenue exceeding
$10 billion that participate in the three consultants' executive compensation surveys. By using survey data covering a large number of comparator companies, 3M is able to conduct a rigorous
benchmarking process with more complete and reliable data for each executive position benchmarked. The Committee does not review the identity of the companies in this survey comparator group. 
42




 










Table of Contents 
        In addition, Aon Hewitt and Frederic W. Cook & Co., Inc. provide pay data and information on the executive compensation practices at the
companies in 3M's executive compensation peer group. This pay data is used by the Committee to assess the reasonableness of the benchmarking results for each executive position benchmarked, helping to
ensure that the Company's compensation objectives are being met. 3M's executive compensation peer group consists of the following 19 companies, as recommended by the Committee's independent
compensation consultant and approved by the Committee: 











Caterpillar Inc.
 
Illinois Tool Works Inc.


Corning Incorporated
 
Johnson & Johnson


Covidien plc
 
Kimberly-Clark Corporation


Danaher Corp.
 
Medtronic, Inc.


Deere & Company
 
Parker-Hannifin Corporation


Dow Chemical Company
 
The Procter & Gamble Company


Eaton Corporation
 
TE Connectivity Ltd.


E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company
 
Tyco International Ltd.


Emerson Electric Co.
 
United Technologies Corporation


Honeywell International Inc.
 
 




        The
companies in this executive compensation peer group were selected because (1) their performance is monitored regularly by the same market analysts who monitor the performance
of 3M (investment peers), and/or (2) they meet criteria based on similarity of their business and pay models, market capitalization (based on an eight-quarter rolling average), and annual
revenues. During 2012, the Committee removed Avery Dennison, Ecolab, and General Electric from the peer group because they are no longer used by the Company as investment peers, and because Avery
Dennison and Ecolab no longer meet the size criteria required for inclusion. During 2012, the Committee added Covidien, Corning, Dow Chemical, Parker-Hannifin, and TE Connectivity to the peer group.
Since these changes were made relatively late in the year, they did not generally affect the 2012 compensation decisions made by the Committee. 
 How the Committee uses this Benchmarking Information  
        When establishing and adjusting the Total Cash Compensation and long-term incentive compensation of the Named Executive
Officers and other senior executives, the Committee considers the pay data from the Benchmarking Groups. The Committee also uses information on the executive compensation practices at companies in the
executive compensation peer group when considering design changes to the Company's executive compensation program. 
        With
this information the Committee aims to provide the Company's executives whose performance meets the Company's expectations with Total Cash Compensation that is at or very close to
the median of the corresponding compensation paid to executives in the Benchmarking Groups, and with long-term incentive compensation delivered through annual grants having values
that are generally within a range of 80 to 120 percent of the median of the corresponding grant values provided to executives in the Benchmarking Groups. For those executives whose performance
consistently exceeds the Company's expectations, their Total Cash Compensation can reach 120 to 125 percent of the median of the corresponding compensation paid to executives in the
Benchmarking Groups. Executives whose performance far exceeds the Company's expectations can receive annual long-term incentive compensation grants having values that are within a range of
125 to 160 percent of the median of the corresponding grant values provided to executives in the Benchmarking Groups. 
        Overall,
the Company believes that use of this information from the Benchmarking Groups enables the Committee to create better alignment between executive pay and performance and to help
ensure that 3M can attract and retain high-performing executive leaders. 
43



 
Table of Contents
 Role of the Compensation Committee and its Advisors  
        3M provides compensation to its executives to recognize their contributions to the success of its business and reward them for
delivering performance that meets the growth, profitability, and other objectives of the Company. All elements of this compensation are determined by the Committee, which is composed solely of
independent nonemployee directors. In addition, the Committee's decisions concerning the compensation of 3M's Chief Executive Officer are subject to ratification by all of the independent members of
the Board of Directors. 
        The
Committee regularly reviews the design of and risks associated with the Company's executive compensation program and, with the assistance of its independent compensation consultant,
makes decisions concerning changes in the executive compensation program when appropriate. 
        During
2012, the Committee was assisted by its independent compensation consultant, George B. Paulin of Frederic W. Cook & Co., Inc. In addition to participating in
the meetings of the Committee, Mr. Paulin provides the Committee with advice regarding the Company's executive salary structure, annual and long-term incentive compensation plans,
compensation-related risks, and other executive pay policies. He also provides expert knowledge of marketplace trends and best practices relating to executive compensation practices and competitive
pay levels. Mr. Paulin and his firm provide no other services to the Company or 3M management, with the exception of independent advisory support to the Nominating and Governance Committee on
the compensation of 3M's nonemployee directors so that valuation methodologies and peer groups are consistent
with those used for executives and other employees. During the year the Committee conducted an evaluation of the independence of Mr. Paulin and his firm considering the relevant regulations of
the Securities and Exchange Commission and the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange, and it concluded that the services performed by Mr. Paulin and his firm raised no conflicts of
interest. 
        3M's
executive officers assist the Committee with the process of determining the compensation of the Company's executives. In particular, Mr. Thulin, assisted by 3M's Senior Vice
President, Human Resources, performs an annual performance evaluation of each of 3M's senior executives whose compensation is determined by the Committee. The results of these annual performance
evaluations form the basis for Mr. Thulin's recommendations to the Committee as to the annual merit base salary and target annual incentive compensation increases for such senior executives, as
well as the size of their annual long-term incentive compensation awards. The Committee discusses these recommendations with Mr. Thulin at its meetings prior to making its decisions
on the amount of any increase to an executive's annual base salary or target annual incentive compensation or any long-term incentive compensation awards. 
        The
Committee reviews and approves annual performance goals and objectives for 3M's Chief Executive Officer. Acting through its Chairman, the Committee also conducts and discusses with
the independent members of the Board of Directors an annual evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer's performance against such goals and objectives. Finally, the Committee, assisted by its
independent compensation consultant, annually reviews and approves (based on this annual evaluation), subject to ratification by the independent members of the Board of Directors, the compensation of
the Chief Executive Officer. 
 Elements of the Compensation Program  
        The compensation program for 3M's executives consists of the following elements:


•base salary; 
•short-term cash incentive in the form of an annual performance-based award opportunity; and 

44



 
Table of Contents


•long-term equity incentives in the form of annual awards of performance shares and stock options, and in some
years, grants of restricted stock or restricted stock units. 

        3M's
executives also participate in various benefit plans made available to most of 3M's U.S. employees, are eligible to participate in three deferred compensation plans (which enable
them to save for retirement or other financial planning purposes), and receive certain other benefits, each of which is described in further detail in the All Other Compensation Table. The entire
program applied to approximately 115 executives during 2012, including all of the Named Executive Officers. 
        The
following table shows how the 2012 Total Direct Compensation of each Named Executive Officer was apportioned among these elements, and how these elements relate to the strategic
business goals of the Company. This table also reflects the relative balance among the elements as well as the alignment of these executives' compensation with the goal of creating
long-term value for the Company and its stockholders. 

























 
 


Elements of Total Direct Compensation
 
Strategic Goal Alignment
 


 
 


Compensation
Element
 
Performance-
Based
Compensation
 
Form of
Compensation
 
Percent of CEO's &
Other NEOs' Total
Direct
Compensation*
 
Growth
 
Efficient Use
of Capital
 
Total
Shareholder
Return
 


 
 






 Base Salary
 
 
 
Cash
 
12% CEO
18-27% NEOs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


Annual Incentive
 
ü
 
Cash (200% cap)
Equity (amount
exceeding 200% cap)
 
18% CEO
18-20% NEOs
 
 
•
 
 
•
 
 
•
 


 
 






 Stock Options
 
ü
 
Equity
 
35% CEO
23-32% NEOs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•
 


 
 


Performance Shares
 
ü
 
Equity
 
35% CEO
27-34% NEOs
 
 
 •
 
 
•
 
 
•
 


 
 





*Information
in this column excludes Mr. Buckley, who retired on June 1, 2012 

 Base Salary  

        3M pays each of its executives a base salary in cash on a monthly basis. The amount of this base salary is reviewed annually, and does
not vary with the performance of the Company. Base salaries are designed to compensate the executives for their normal day-to-day responsibilities, and it is the only component
of their compensation that is considered to be fixed rather than variable in nature. 

 Annual Incentive  

        3M provides its executives with annual incentive compensation through plans that are designed to align a significant portion of their
Total Cash Compensation with the financial performance of the Company and its business units. Each executive is assigned a target amount of annual incentive compensation as part of his or her Total
Cash Compensation, but the amount of annual incentive compensation actually paid depends on the performance of 3M and its relevant business units. For Mr. Thulin, annual incentive compensation
represented 61 percent of his target Total Cash Compensation for 2012. For 3M's other Named Executive Officers (excluding Mr. Buckley), annual incentive compensation represented from
43 percent to 50 percent of their target Total Cash Compensation for 2012. 
        3M's
broad-based annual incentive plan delivers short-term incentive compensation based on three performance metrics:


•Local Currency Sales (of 3M or a business unit, as applicable) vs. plan for the current year;  
•Economic Profit (of 3M or a business unit, as applicable) vs. plan for the current year; and 

45



 
Table of Contents


•3M Economic Profit vs. the prior year. 

        While
the annual incentive compensation earned by most 3M executives is determined under this broad-based incentive plan, the annual incentive compensation earned by 3M's Named Executive
Officers, as well as the other senior executives whose compensation is decided by the Committee, is determined under the Executive Annual Incentive Plan approved by 3M's stockholders at the
2007 Annual Meeting. A total of 23 3M senior executives participated in this Executive Annual Incentive Plan during 2012. This Executive Annual Incentive Plan, which is intended to provide
compensation that is exempt from the $1 million annual deduction limit of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, provides performance-based compensation for which the performance
goal is the Company's Adjusted Net Income. 
        The
Executive Annual Incentive Plan establishes a maximum amount of annual incentive compensation that may be earned by each covered executive for a year, which is
one-quarter of one percent of the Company's Adjusted Net Income for such year for each Named Executive Officer. However, the Committee utilizes the discretion provided by the Plan to pay
each covered executive less than this maximum amount based on such factors as it deems relevant. 
        The
primary factors considered by the Committee in determining the amount of the Named Executive Officers' annual incentive compensation are each executive's individual performance and
the performance of the Company and its business units, as measured by the three performance metrics referred to above and that are used to determine payouts under the broad-based annual incentive
plan. While the Committee considers and is guided by the amounts that would be payable under the broad-based annual incentive plan if these executives were covered by such plan, it is not bound by
these results and may pay different amounts. 
        Individual
performance is considered as a factor based upon the annual performance evaluation that Mr. Thulin, assisted by 3M's Senior Vice President, Human Resources, does for
each covered executive (other than himself) and the annual performance evaluation that the Compensation Committee acting through its Chairman does for Mr. Thulin. These performance evaluations
are done according to 3M's overall performance assessment and management processes, which involve setting annual financial and non-financial goals and objectives for each individual and
then assessing the individual's performance against these goals and objectives at the end of the year. The annual performance evaluation assesses each executive's overall performance against these
goals and objectives, but does not assess performance against each goal or objective in a formulaic manner. 

 Long-term Incentives  

        3M provides long-term incentive compensation to its executives through the Long-Term Incentive Plan approved by
3M's stockholders at the 2008 Annual Meeting. This is a typical omnibus-type plan that authorizes the Committee to grant stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock
appreciation rights, performance cash, performance shares, and other stock awards to management employees of the Company. The Company provides its executives with this long-term incentive
compensation based on 3M common stock in order to effectively motivate such executives to build long-term stockholder value. 

 Benefits and Perquisites  

        3M's executives generally participate in the same health care, disability, life insurance, pension, and 401(k) benefit plans available
to most of the Company's U.S. employees. 
        Executives
also receive a limited number of additional benefits and perquisites described in more detail in the All Other Compensation Table of this Proxy Statement. These additional
benefits and perquisites are provided for the convenience (financial planning assistance, for example), financial 
46



 
Table of Contents
security
(retirement contributions and premiums for additional life insurance coverage, for example), or personal security (travel on corporate aircraft, for example) of the executives. No tax
gross-ups are provided on any of these additional benefits and perquisites. 
 How 3M Determined the 2012 Compensation of the Named Executive Officers  
        All amounts were determined by the Committee, assisted by its independent compensation consultant, with the input of Mr. Thulin
(other than with respect to his own compensation). This input included:


•Mr. Thulin's recommendations based on the results of his most recent annual performance evaluations of the other
Named Executive Officers (other than Mr. Buckley); 
•The compensation information from the companies in the Benchmarking Groups; and  
•A tally sheet comparing the amounts of compensation actually received by the Company's Named Executive Officers to the
amounts reported in its annual Proxy Statement as well as the compensation that would be owed to such individuals in the event of the termination of their employment. This tally sheet helps the
Committee better understand the Company's potential obligations to the Named Executive Officers following the termination of their employment, as well as assessing the risk of any individual leaving
the Company prematurely for the purpose of considering whether it is providing sufficient retention incentives. 

        Differences
in the amounts of compensation provided to 3M's Named Executive Officers reflect a variety of factors, including job responsibilities, the market pay for executives
performing similar responsibilities (as measured by the pay information obtained from companies in the Benchmarking Groups), experience and time in their current positions, internal pay equity, and
individual performance. Initially, the Committee aims to provide the Named Executive Officers with Total Cash Compensation that is at or very close to the median value of the corresponding
compensation provided to executives with similar responsibilities at companies in the Benchmarking Groups. 
        However,
the Committee adjusts the stock option portion of the long-term incentive compensation provided to the Named Executive Officers to reflect each individual's actual
individual performance during the previous year. 

 2012 Base Salary and Target Total Cash Compensation  

        Changes in the base salaries and target Total Cash Compensation of the Named Executive Officers are considered annually by the
Committee. Any adjustments are made after considering the most recent compensation data for executives with similar responsibilities at companies in the Benchmarking Groups, each individual's position
in the salary range for his or her position, and the individual's performance during the preceding annual period. 
        In
February 2012, the Committee approved the following increases in the base salaries and target Total Cash Compensation of the Named Executive Officers other than Mr. Thulin,
Mr. Buckley, and Mr. Fong: 





















 


Name
 
Previous
Base
Salary
 
New Base Salary
effective 4/1/12
 
%
Increase
 
Previous target
Total Cash
Compensation
 
New target
Total Cash
Compensation
effective 4/1/12
 
%
Increase


 


 David W. Meline
 
 $623,500
 
 $657,353
 
 5.4%
 
 $1,153,251
 
 $1,314,706
 
 14.0%


 


 Hak Cheol Shin
 
 $637,000
 
 $637,000
 
  0%
 
 $1,096,000
 
 $1,139,840
 
  4.0%


 


 Brad T. Sauer
 
 $598,490
 
 $598,490
 
  0%
 
 $1,029,403
 
 $1,060,285
 
  3.0%


 




47



 
Table of Contents
        Mr. Meline's increase was based on his successful transition into the Company's senior finance leadership position during 2011, as well as
solid performance leading the areas of pension asset management and risk management. Mr. Shin's increase acknowledged his successful transition into leading all of 3M's International
Operations, and the implementation of strict operational excellence discipline in response to difficult economic conditions that affected the global economy especially in the second half of 2011.
Mr. Sauer's increase reflected a solid year leading 3M's health care business, including a significant increase in the portion of its sales from new products. The entire amount of the increases
for Mr. Shin and Mr. Sauer and the majority of Mr. Meline's increase was delivered in the form of increases in their target annual incentive compensation rather than increases in
base salary, due to the Committee's decision to pay more of the cash compensation of all senior executives (other than the Chief Executive Officer) through performance-based annual incentive
compensation in order to better align 3M's executive compensation program with the programs at companies in the Benchmarking Groups. Following these increases, Mr. Meline's target annual
incentive compensation was equal to 100 percent of his annual base salary, Mr. Shin's target annual incentive compensation was equal to 79 percent of his annual base salary
(progressing toward the target of 85 percent), and Mr. Sauer's target annual incentive compensation was equal to 77 percent of his annual base salary (progressing toward the
target of 85 percent). 
        Upon
Mr. Thulin's appointment to the positions of President and Chief Executive Officer in February 2012, the Committee recommended and the independent members of the Board of
Directors approved an adjustment in his base salary and target Total Cash Compensation, to reflect his increased responsibilities. With this adjustment, Mr. Thulin's base salary increased from
$825,000 to $1,300,000 and his target Total Cash Compensation increased from $1,650,000 to $3,300,000. His target Total Cash Compensation was designed to approximate the median value of the
corresponding compensation provided to chief executive officers at companies in the Benchmarking Groups. 
        As
a result of these increases, the target Total Cash Compensation of these Named Executive Officers ranged from 95 to 107 percent of the median value of the corresponding
compensation provided to executives with similar responsibilities at companies in the Benchmarking Groups. 
        Upon
Mr. Fong's appointment to the position of Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel, the Committee established his initial target Total Cash Compensation at
$1,155,000. This target Total Cash Compensation consists of an annual base salary of $660,000 and target annual incentive compensation of $495,000. At the time of his appointment, this target Total
Cash Compensation was modestly above the median value of the corresponding compensation paid to chief legal officers at companies in the Benchmarking Groups. The Committee believed that this amount
was appropriate in view of Mr. Fong's strong history of successful performance at positions of increasing responsibility (including his previous position as general counsel of the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security) and was necessary to attract Mr. Fong to 3M versus other potential employers. In addition to this initial Total Cash Compensation for Mr. Fong, the
Committee also approved a cash signing bonus of $1,000,000 payable in two equal installments, one-half payable within 30 days following his employment commencement date of
October 15, 2012, and the other half payable within 30 days following the first anniversary of his employment commencement date, assuming continued employment. 
        After
reviewing Mr. Meline's recent performance as Chief Financial Officer, the Committee approved an additional adjustment in his base salary and target Total Cash Compensation
effective in October 2012, which was designed to close the gap between his compensation and that provided to chief financial officers at companies in the Benchmarking Groups. With this adjustment,
Mr. Meline's base salary increased from $657,353 to $690,221 and his target Total Cash Compensation increased from $1,314,706 to $1,380,441. Following this adjustment, his target Total Cash
Compensation was 100 percent of the median value of the corresponding compensation paid to chief financial officers at companies in the Benchmarking Groups and his target annual incentive
compensation was equal to 100 percent of his annual base salary. 
48




 










Table of Contents 

 2012 Annual Incentive  

        During 2012, the Committee chose to deliver short-term incentive compensation to its Named Executive Officers in the form
of an annual cash incentive under the Executive Annual Incentive Plan. Each Named Executive Officer had a target annual incentive for the year, which is equal to the difference between his or her
target Total Cash Compensation and annual base salary. As explained above in the "Annual Incentive" discussion under "Elements of the Compensation Program," the Committee considered the amount of an
individual's target annual incentive together with his or her individual performance during 2012. The Committee also considered the 2012 performance of 3M and its business units as measured under the
Company's broad-based annual incentive plan when it determined the amount of each Named Executive Officer's annual incentive compensation for 2012. 
        Since
the Company satisfied the Executive Annual Incentive Plan's performance objective by earning Adjusted Net Income of $4.444 billion for 2012, the plan authorized the
Committee to approve payments of annual incentive compensation to each Named Executive Officer equal to one-quarter of one percent of such Adjusted Net Income ($11,109,075). In order to
more closely align the payout to each individual with the 2012 performance of the Company and the relevant business unit as well as the individual's performance, the Committee reduced the amounts
payable to the Named Executive Officers (including Mr. Thulin and Mr. Buckley) from the plan authorized maximum amount to the following amounts (the reduced amounts of
Mr. Thulin's and Mr. Buckley's 2012 annual incentive compensation were ratified by the independent members of the 3M Board of Directors): 













 


Name
 
Target Annual
Incentive ($)*
 
Actual 2012
Incentive ($)**


 


 



 Inge G. Thulin
 
1,900,958
 
1,994,865


  


 George W. Buckley
 
2,795,000
 
1,113,568


  


 



 David W. Meline
 
   633,886
 
   786,146


  


 Ivan K. Fong
 
   495,000
 
   101,321


  


 



 Hak Cheol Shin
 
   491,922
 
   434,859


  


 Brad T. Sauer
 
   454,104
 
   586,793


  






*The
amounts for Mr. Thulin, Mr. Meline, Mr. Shin, and Mr. Sauer are prorated to reflect compensation adjustments that occurred
during 2012 and increased the amount of their target annual incentive compensation.
**Each
of Mr. Buckley's and Mr. Fong's 2012 annual incentive compensation was prorated to reflect the portion of the year he was employed by the
Company. 

        As
explained above, one of the primary factors considered by the Committee in determining payouts under the Executive Annual Incentive Plan is the amount that would have been payable
under the Company's broad-based annual incentive plan if the Named Executive Officers had been covered by such plan. These amounts were based on the following performance results for the Company and,
as 
49



 
Table of Contents
applicable,
the respective business units of the Named Executive Officers during 2012 with respect to each performance metric of the broad-based annual incentive plan: 

























 


 
 
Local Currency Sales 
 
Economic Profit 
 
 
 
Weighted
Average
Payout %
Based on
Payout
Curve


 
 
Total
Company
Economic
Profit vs.
Prior Year


(Dollar amounts in millions)
  
Business Unit
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
Plan
 
Actual
 
Actual vs.
Plan
 
Plan
 
Actual
 
Actual vs.
Plan


 


 Total Company
 
 $30,687
 
 $30,535
 
 100%
 
 $2,487
 
 $2,353
 
  95%
 
 102%
 
 95%


 


 Health Care
 
 $  5,312
 
 $  5,268
 
  99%
 
 $1,005
 
 $1,009
 
 100%
 
 102%
 
 99%


 


 Total International
 
 $20,726
 
 $20,068
 
  97%
 
 $2,961
 
 $2,694
 
  91%
 
 102%
 
 88%


 




        The Committee then decided whether to adjust the amounts of these payouts to reflect the individual performance of each Named Executive Officer
during 2012. The Committee made no adjustment in the payouts to Mr. Buckley and Mr. Fong, due to the relatively short amount of time they served in their positions during the year. The
Committee decided to increase the amount of Mr. Thulin's payout (and the independent members of the Board of Directors ratified the Committee's decision) to recognize his successful first year
as 3M's Chief Executive Officer, and especially his strong work on the Company's long-term strategies, his leadership in developing the new 3M Vision and six corporate business strategies
shown above, his focus on prioritizing the Company's portfolio of businesses, his decision to realign the Company's business groups to better serve our customers and markets, and his guidance in
resetting the long-term financial expectations for the Company. The amount of Mr. Meline's payout was increased to recognize his success in improving the Company's relationship with
the investment community, including the development and communication of the Company's new long-term financial goals. Due to the overall financial performance of 3M's International
Operations business, the Committee decided to make no adjustment in the payout to Mr. Shin. The Committee increased the amount of Mr. Sauer's payout in response to the strong financial
performance of 3M's health care business during 2012, especially its ability to generate strong profit growth in a lackluster economy. 

 Long-term Incentives — 2012 Annual Grants  

        After considering the most recent long-term incentive compensation data from companies in the Benchmarking Groups and after
taking into account its evaluation of their individual performance during 2011, the Committee approved (and in the cases of Mr. Thulin and Mr. Buckley, the independent members of the
Board of Directors ratified) the following grant values of the Named Executive Officers' annual long-term incentive compensation awards for 2012. For ease of comparison, the following
table also shows the grant values of the Named Executive Officers' 2011 annual long-term incentive compensation awards and the percentage change between the two amounts. 















 


Name
 
Grant Value of
2011 Annual
Awards
 
Grant Value of
2012 Annual
Awards
 
% Change


 


 Inge G. Thulin
 
$2,330,363
 
$8,000,050
 
243.30%


  


 George W. Buckley*
 
$8,500,004
 
$4,250,000
 
-50.00%


  


 David W. Meline
 
$1,174,166
 
$2,382,865
 
102.94%


  


 Hak Cheol Shin
 
$1,700,049
 
$1,657,564
 
  -2.50%


  


 Brad T. Sauer
 
$1,580,070
 
$1,404,265
 
-11.13%


  






*The
Committee decided to make the entire amount of Mr. Buckley's 2012 annual award in the form of performance shares. A portion of those performance
shares was forfeited when he retired from the Company in June 2012, pursuant to rules adopted by the 

50



 
Table of Contents


Compensation
Committee which apply upon the retirement of any of the Company's executives. Specifically, 50 percent of the 2012 performance shares awarded to Mr. Buckley (having a grant
value of $2,125,000) were forfeited. 



        Mr. Thulin
and Mr. Meline received significantly larger percentage increases in the grant values of their 2012 awards due to their new positions and responsibilities, and
the adjustment of their grant values to bring them in line with the grant values provided to their peers at companies in the Benchmarking Groups. Mr. Fong did not receive a 2012 annual
long-term incentive compensation award since he did not join 3M until October 15, 2012. However, see the following section "Long-Term Incentives —
Other Grants" for a description of the grants that Mr. Fong did receive when he joined the Company. 
        Consistent
with market practices at companies in the Benchmarking Groups, during 2012 the Committee chose to deliver one-half of the target grant value of the annual
long-term incentive compensation awards provided to 3M's Named Executive Officers (with the exception of Mr. Buckley, whose 2012 award was entirely in the form of performance
shares) in the form of stock options (before adjustment for individual performance) and the remaining one-half in the form of performance shares. The performance criteria selected by the
Committee for the performance shares awarded during 2012 were designed to focus management attention on three key factors that create long-term stockholder value: Organic Sales Volume
Growth, Return on Invested Capital, and sales from new products as measured by the New Product Vitality Index. 
        The
number of shares of 3M common stock that could be delivered for each performance share awarded in 2012 is linked to the Company's performance as measured by the criteria of Organic
Sales Volume Growth, Return on Invested Capital, and the New Product Vitality Index. Approximately 40 percent of this number will be determined by Organic Sales Volume Growth, another
40 percent will be determined by Return on Invested Capital, and the remaining 20 percent will be determined by the New Product Vitality Index. With these weightings, 60 percent
of each individual's long-term incentive opportunity attributable to these awards is tied to the Company's long-term sales growth objective, a key contributor to
long-term stockholder value. Attainment of these three independent performance criteria is measured separately for each calendar year during the three-year measurement period,
with each year weighted as follows (2012 — 50 percent; 2013 — 30 percent; and 2014 — 20 percent). However, the formulas by
which the Company's performance is measured do not change over the three-year performance period. 
        The
number of shares of 3M common stock that could actually be delivered at the end of the three-year performance period ending on December 31, 2014, may be anywhere
from 0 percent to 200 percent of each performance share granted, depending on the performance of the Company during such performance period. However, an executive may forfeit all or a
portion of such shares if he or she does not remain employed by the Company throughout the three-year performance period. 
        For
2012, the Committee approved the following formulas for determining the number of shares of 3M common stock actually delivered for each performance share awarded, with the total
number of shares actually delivered being the sum of the number of shares earned as a result of the Company's achievement of each of the three performance objectives. The formulas for all three
performance criteria remained the same as the formulas for the performance shares awarded in 2011, since they remain aligned with 3M's operating plans and provide assurance that the amount of
compensation actually 

51



 
Table of Contents

earned
by the Company's executives is aligned with the Company's performance over the performance period. 






















 


Organic Sales
Volume Growth
Exceeding IPI
 
% of
number of
performance
shares
 
Return on
Invested Capital
 
% of
number of
performance
shares
 
New Product
Vitality Index
 
% of
number of
performance
shares
 
Total % of
number of
performance
shares


 


 below -1.0%
 
  0%
 
below 19.0%
 
  0%
 
below 28.0%
 
  0%
 
    0%


  


 -1.0%
 
  8%
 
19.0%
 
  8%
 
28.0%
 
  4%
 
  20%


  


 0.5%
 
40%
 
21.0%
 
40%
 
33.0%
 
20%
 
100%


  


 2.0% or higher
 
80%
 
23.0% or higher
 
80%
 
38.0% or higher
 
40%
 
200%


  





        The above formulas are not a prediction of how 3M will perform during the years 2012 through 2014. The sole purpose of
these formulas, which were approved by the Committee in February 2012, is to establish a method for determining the payment of long-term incentive compensation under the
Long-Term Incentive Plan. 3M is not providing any guidance, nor updating any prior guidance, of its future performance with the disclosure of these formulas, and you are cautioned not to
rely on these formulas as a prediction of 3M's future performance.
 Long-term Incentives — Other Grants  

        See the 2012 Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table in this Proxy Statement for information regarding the initial
long-term incentive grants made to Mr. Fong at the time he commenced his employment with 3M as Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel. These grants were made as
part of the compensation package designed to persuade him to join 3M instead of other potential employers. 
        The
2012 Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table also reflects the grant of 2010, 2011, and 2012 performance shares to Mr. Fong under the 2008 Long-Term
Incentive Plan. These 2010, 2011, and 2012 performance shares were granted to Mr. Fong upon his appointment as Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel, which was effective
October 15, 2012. Consistent with the Company's treatment of other newly-appointed senior executives, these performance shares were intended to provide Mr. Fong with a portion of the
long-term incentive compensation granted to comparable executives in the respective years, prorated to reflect the amount of time in his new position. 
        For
purposes of these awards to Mr. Fong, the performance criteria previously selected by the Committee for the 2010 and 2011 performance shares were the same as the performance
criteria for the 2012 performance shares: Organic Sales Volume Growth, Return on Invested Capital, and sales from new products as measured by the New Product Vitality Index. The number of shares of 3M
common stock that could be delivered for each 2010, 2011, and 2012 performance share is linked to the Company's performance as measured by the criteria of Organic Sales Volume Growth, Return on
Invested Capital, and the New Product Vitality Index. Approximately 40 percent of this number will be determined by Organic Sales Volume Growth, another 40 percent will be determined by
Return on Invested Capital, and the remaining 20 percent will be determined by the New Product Vitality Index. Attainment of these three independent performance criteria is measured separately
for each calendar year during the respective three-year performance period, with each year weighted as follows (first year — 50 percent; second
year — 30 percent; and third year — 20 percent). However, the formulas by which the Company's performance is measured do not change over the
respective three-year performance period. The number of shares of 3M common stock that could actually be delivered at the end of each respective three-year performance period
ending on December 31 may be anywhere from 0 percent to 200 percent of each performance share granted, depending on the performance of the Company during such performance period. 
52



 
Table of Contents
        In
February 2010, the Committee approved the following formulas for determining the number of shares of 3M common stock actually delivered for each 2010 performance share awarded, with
the total number of shares actually delivered being the sum of the number of shares earned as a result of the Company's achievement of each of the three performance objectives as follows: 





















 


Organic Sales
Volume Growth
Exceeding IPI
 
% of
number of
performance
shares
 
Return on
Invested Capital
 
% of
number of
performance
shares
 
New Product
Vitality Index
 
% of
number of
performance
shares
 
Total % of
number of
performance
shares


 


 below -1.0%
 
  0%
 
below 15.0%
 
  0%
 
below 22.0%
 
  0%
 
    0%


  


 -1.0%
 
  8%
 
15.0%
 
  8%
 
22.0%
 
  4%
 
  20%


  


 0.5%
 
40%
 
20.0%
 
40%
 
29.0%
 
20%
 
100%


  


 2.0% or higher
 
80%
 
22.5% or higher
 
80%
 
36.0% or higher
 
40%
 
200%


  




        In February 2011, the Committee approved the following formulas for determining the number of shares of 3M common stock actually delivered for
each 2011 performance share awarded, with the total number of shares actually delivered being the sum of the number of shares earned as a result of the Company's achievement of each of the three
performance objectives as follows: 





















 


Organic Sales
Volume Growth
Exceeding IPI
 
% of
number of
performance
shares
 
Return on
Invested Capital
 
% of
number of
performance
shares
 
New Product
Vitality Index
 
% of
number of
performance
shares
 
Total % of
number of
performance
shares


 


 below -1.0%
 
  0%
 
below 19.0%
 
  0%
 
below 28.0%
 
  0%
 
    0%


  


 -1.0%
 
  8%
 
19.0%
 
  8%
 
28.0%
 
  4%
 
  20%


  


 0.5%
 
40%
 
21.0%
 
40%
 
33.0%
 
20%
 
100%


  


 2.0% or higher
 
80%
 
23.0% or higher
 
80%
 
38.0% or higher
 
40%
 
200%


  




        The above formulas are not a prediction of how 3M will perform during the years 2010 through 2012, or during the years
2011 through 2013. The sole purpose of these formulas, which were approved by the Committee in February 2010 and February 2011, is to establish a method for determining the payment of
long-term incentive compensation under the Long-Term Incentive Plan. 3M is not providing any guidance, nor updating any prior guidance, of its future performance with the
disclosure of these formulas, and you are cautioned not to rely on these formulas as a prediction of 3M's future performance.

 Long-term Incentives — Payouts for Grants made in Prior Years  

        2012 marked the final year of the three-year performance period of the performance share awards made to 3M's executives in
2010 (and, in some cases, in 2011 and 2012) under the Long-Term Incentive Plan. The performance share awards made during 2010 were designed to deliver compensation based on the performance
of the Company over the years 2010, 2011, and 2012 as measured by its Organic Sales Volume Growth, Return on Invested Capital, and sales from new products as measured by the New Product Vitality
Index. Pursuant to the formulas approved by the Committee at the time the initial awards were made, the Company's performance during this three-year performance period (annual Organic
Sales Volume Growth of 5.6 percent in 2010, 0.0 percent in 2011 and -0.7 percent in 2012) (annual Return on Invested Capital of 21.9 percent in 2010, 20.5 percent in 2011 and 20.2
percent in 
53



 
Table of Contents
2012)
(annual New Product Vitality Index of 31.4 percent in 2010, 31.7 percent in 2011 and 33.1 percent in 2012) resulted in a payout of 1.38 shares of 3M common stock per performance share. 















 


Name
 
Number of
target
performance
shares
 
Number of
actual 3M
shares earned
 
Value of
actual 3M
shares earned*($)


 


 Inge G. Thulin
 
  9,400
 
12,972
 
1,204,450


  


 George W. Buckley
 
53,713
 
74,124
 
6,882,413


  


 David W. Meline
 
  8,644
 
11,929
 
1,107,608


  


 Ivan K. Fong
 
     747
 
  1,031
 
     95,728


  


 Hak Cheol Shin
 
  9,400
 
12,972
 
1,204,450


  


 Brad T. Sauer
 
  9,400
 
12,972
 
1,204,450


  






*Value
of the shares earned as of December 31, 2012, when the fair market value of a share of 3M common stock was $92.85. 

 Stock Ownership Guidelines  
        The Company's stock ownership guidelines apply to all Section 16 officers of the Company and are designed to increase an
executive's equity stake in 3M and more closely align his or her financial interests with those of 3M's stockholders. The guidelines provide that the Chief Executive Officer should attain beneficial
ownership of 3M stock equal to six times his or her annual base salary at the time of appointment, the Executive and Senior Vice Presidents should attain beneficial ownership of 3M stock equal to
three times their annual base salaries at the time of appointment, and Vice Presidents should attain beneficial ownership of 3M stock equal to two times their annual base salaries at the time of
appointment. 
        The
stock ownership guidelines provide that the covered officers should attain the requisite beneficial ownership of 3M stock within five years of their appointment to their positions.
However, if an officer is not on track (measured by multiplying 20 percent of the target ownership by the number of years since their appointment) to meet the required level of ownership, the
guidelines provide that he or she will be required to hold and not sell a sufficient number of the after-tax 3M shares received upon the next payout of performance shares to be on track to
satisfy the required ownership level. All of 3M's officers covered by the guidelines are on track to meet the required level of ownership within five years of their respective appointments. For more
information concerning the 3M stock ownership of the Named Executive Officers, see the "Information on Stock Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers" in this Proxy Statement. 
        For
purposes of these guidelines, shares owned directly by an officer or by members of the officer's immediate family, shares owned indirectly through an officer's account in the
Company's 401(k) plan or another deferred compensation plan, unvested shares of restricted stock owned by an officer, and shares represented by unvested restricted stock units granted to an officer
are all considered to be beneficially owned by the officer and are counted in determining attainment of the required ownership level. 
        To
prevent speculation or hedging of interests in our equity by our executive officers, the Company prohibits short sales of 3M stock or the purchase or sale by these executive officers
of financial instruments, including options, puts, calls, equity swaps, collars, or other derivative instruments that are directly linked to 3M stock. In addition, the Company also prohibits the use
of standing orders, margin accounts, and pledging of securities by its executive officers. 
54



 
Table of Contents
 Policy on Reimbursement of Incentive Payments ("Clawback")  
        The Company's Board of Directors has adopted a policy requiring the reimbursement of excess incentive compensation payments made to an
executive in the event that 3M is required to make a material restatement of its financial statements. This policy applies to all senior executives of the Company including all of the Named Executive
Officers. This policy does not require any misconduct on the part of the covered executive whose excess incentive compensation payment is being reimbursed. As long as the Company is required to make a
material restatement of its financial statements that causes an incentive compensation payout to be higher than it should have been, the Company may seek to recover the overpayment from all affected
executives irrespective of whether their conduct contributed to the need for the restatement. The Company established this policy prior to the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, which
establishes new requirements for such policies. Upon issuance by the Securities and Exchange Commission of final implementing regulations for the Dodd-Frank Act's requirements, the Company
will make any changes to its existing policy as may be required to comply with those regulations. 
 Limit on Tax-Deductible Compensation  
        Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code prohibits 3M from deducting compensation paid in any year to its Chief Executive
Officer and each other Named Executive Officer whose compensation is reported in the Summary Compensation Table for such year by reason of being among the three most highly compensated officers for
that year, other than the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer ("Covered Employees"), in excess of $1 million, but does not subject performance-based compensation to this
limit. Due to his service as the Company's interim Chief Executive Officer for a period of approximately six months in 2005, one of the members of the Committee (Robert S. Morrison) does not
participate in the Committee's decisions involving performance-based compensation since he is not considered an "outside director" of the Company for purposes of Section 162(m) and the
regulations published thereunder. 
        The
Committee continues to emphasize performance-based compensation for executives and thus minimize the effect of Section 162(m). However, the Committee believes that its primary
responsibility is to provide a compensation program that attracts, retains, and rewards the executive talent necessary for the Company's success. Consequently, in any year the Committee may authorize
nonperformance-based compensation in excess of $1 million. The Committee recognizes that the loss of the tax deduction may be unavoidable under these circumstances. 
 Severance or Change in Control Arrangements  
        3M does not have severance plans or arrangements with any of its Named Executive Officers. The absence of such arrangements reflects
the Company's and the Committee's preference for operating without legally binding severance commitments, and preserves maximum flexibility to deal with individual situations if and when the need
arises. 
        Similarly,
3M does not have arrangements providing for payments or other compensation in the event of a change in control of the Company, other than the payment, exercise, or delivery of
long-term incentive compensation awards issued prior to a change in control. For awards with a grant date prior to February 9, 2010, in the event of a change in control of the
Company, both the Long-Term Incentive Plan and its predecessors provided for (1) accelerated vesting of outstanding stock options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units, and
(2) the immediate termination and payout of all outstanding performance units and performance shares. This "single trigger" provision was intended to protect the previously-earned
long-term incentive compensation of employees (including the Named Executive Officers) against the uncertainty and risk of nonpayment that might occur following a takeover of the Company. 
55




 











Table of Contents 
        In 2010 the Board of Directors amended the Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan to eliminate the prior "single trigger" accelerated vesting provision
in the event of a change in control of the Company, and to establish a "double trigger" vesting acceleration provision. This new "double trigger" provision applies to awards with a grant date on or
after February 9, 2010. This provision means that an employee whose employment is terminated without cause or who resigns for "good reason" within 18 months following a change in control
of the Company will receive (1) accelerated vesting of any outstanding stock options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units, and (2) an immediate payout of any outstanding
performance unit and performance share awards. The Board of Directors also amended the Long-Term Incentive Plan to eliminate a provision that would have required the Company to provide
employees (including the Named Executive Officers) with a gross-up payment in the event any excise tax was determined to apply as a result of the payment, vesting, or delivery of
long-term incentive compensation awards made thereunder in the event of a change in control. The Company does not intend to include change in control "single trigger" accelerated vesting
or excise tax gross-up provisions in future equity awards or agreements. 
        Finally,
3M does not have arrangements with any of its Named Executive Officers providing for the payment of excise tax gross-ups in the event of a change in control of the
Company. 
 Say on Pay Advisory Approval of Executive Compensation  
        As required by Section 14A of the Securities Exchange Act, in 2012 the Company conducted an annual advisory vote of stockholders
with respect to the compensation of its Named Executive Officers. At the Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 8, 2012, approximately 94 percent of the shares that were
voted on this item approved the compensation of the Company's Named Executive Officers as disclosed in the 2012 Proxy Statement. While the approval was advisory in nature, the Committee has taken note
of this very strong stockholder support and views the outcome as confirmation that stockholders generally believe that the pay of the Named Executive Officers is appropriately aligned with their
performance and the performance of the Company as well as the interests of 3M's stockholders. As a consequence, the results of this vote have not caused the Committee to make any changes in either the
executive compensation program or the compensation of any Named Executive Officer. 
 
 
  COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT     
        In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission's disclosure requirements for executive compensation, the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors of 3M Company (the "Committee") has reviewed and discussed with 3M Management the Compensation Discussion and Analysis. Based on this review and these discussions
with 3M Management, the Committee recommended to the Board of Directors that this Compensation Discussion and Analysis be included in the 2013 Proxy Statement of 3M Company and 3M Company's Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. 











 
 
 


 Submitted by the Compensation Committee
 
 


 Vance D. Coffman, Chair
 
 Aulana L. Peters


 Edward M. Liddy
 
Robert J. Ulrich


 Robert S. Morrison
 
 




 
 
  Assessment of Risk Related to Compensation Programs     
        Based on the Company's recent assessment, the Company has determined that none of its compensation policies and practices is reasonably
likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company. To conduct this assessment, the Company completed an inventory of its executive and 
56



 
Table of Contents
non-executive
compensation programs globally, with particular emphasis on incentive compensation plans or programs. Based on this inventory, the Company evaluated the primary components of
its compensation plans and practices to identify whether those components, either alone or in combination, properly balanced compensation opportunities and risk. The Company believes that the
Company's overall cash versus equity pay mix, balance of shorter-term versus longer-term performance focus, balance of revenue versus profit focused performance measures, stock
ownership guidelines, and "clawback" policy all work together to provide its employees and executives with incentives to deliver outstanding performance to build long-term stockholder
value, while taking only necessary and prudent risks. In this regard, the Company's strong ethics and its corporate compliance systems, which are overseen by the Audit Committee, further mitigate
against excessive
or inappropriate risk taking. The Compensation Committee, with assistance from its independent compensation consultant, George B. Paulin of Frederic W. Cook & Co., Inc., reviewed
the Company's risk assessment and a separate risk assessment that Mr. Paulin conducted for the Committee on the Company's executive compensation policies and practices. Based on their
consideration of these assessments, the Committee concurred with the Company's determination that none of its compensation policies and practices is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect
on the Company. 
57



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  2012 Summary Compensation Table     
        The following table shows the compensation earned or received during 2012, 2011, and 2010 by each of 3M's Named Executive Officers (as
determined pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Commission's disclosure requirements for executive compensation in Item 402 of Regulation S-K). 


































 
 


Name and Principal Position
 
Year
 
Salary
($)
 
Bonus
($)
 
Stock
Awards
($)(1)
 
Option
Awards
($)(2)
 
Non-Equity
Incentive Plan
Compensation
($)(3)
 
Change in
Pension
Value and
Nonqualified
Deferred
Compensation
Earnings
($)(4)
 
All Other
Compensation
($)(5)
 
Total
($)
 


 
 


 



 Inge G. Thulin
 
 
2012
 
 
1,228,373
 
 
            0
 
 
4,000,053
 
 
3,059,772
 
 
1,994,865
 
 
  3,977,742
 
 
523,671
 
 
14,784,476
 


 



 Chairman of the
 
 
2011
 
 
   751,750
 
 
            0
 
 
1,528,960
 
 
   872,599
 
 
   690,084
 
 
  1,380,089
 
 
136,788
 
 
  5,360,270
 


 



 Board, President and
 
 
2010
 
 
   598,500
 
 
            0
 
 
1,500,049
 
 
1,043,937
 
 
   850,119
 
 
     760,144
 
 
155,380
 
 
  4,908,129
 


 



 Chief Executive Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 George W. Buckley(7)
 
 
 2012
 
 
    758,013
 
 
             0
 
 
 4,250,062
 
 
                0
 
 
 1,113,568
 
 
   1,225,830
 
 
 578,202
 
 
   7,925,675
 


 Former Chairman of the
 
 
2011
 
 
1,720,000
 
 
            0
 
 
5,546,295
 
 
3,441,520
 
 
2,809,534
 
 
11,295,403
 
 
588,256
 
 
25,401,008
 


 Board, President and
 
 
2010
 
 
1,720,000
 
 
            0
 
 
8,022,714
 
 
3,772,940
 
 
5,590,000
 
 
  3,970,767
 
 
632,673
 
 
23,709,094
 


 Chief Executive Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 David W. Meline(6)
 
 
 2012
 
 
    657,107
 
 
             0
 
 
 1,278,001
 
 
    845,156
 
 
    786,146
 
 
      253,079
 
 
   79,520
 
 
   3,899,009
 


 



 Senior Vice President
 
 
2011
 
 
   577,160
 
 
            0
 
 
1,980,075
 
 
   185,762
 
 
   483,566
 
 
     248,903
 
 
  76,114
 
 
  3,551,580
 


 



 and Chief Financial Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Ivan K. Fong(6)
 
 
 2012
 
 
    141,087
 
 
 500,000
 
 
 1,955,702
 
 
    784,229
 
 
    101,321
 
 
                0
 
 
   15,851
 
 
   3,498,190
 


 Senior Vice President,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Legal Affairs and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


  General Counsel
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 Hak Cheol Shin
 
 
 2012
 
 
    637,000
 
 
             0
 
 
    753,024
 
 
    771,668
 
 
    434,859
 
 
      624,074
 
 
 104,466
 
 
   3,325,091
 


 



 Executive Vice President,
 
 
2011
 
 
   620,981
 
 
            0
 
 
   963,617
 
 
   798,480
 
 
   481,126
 
 
  1,351,508
 
 
  84,874
 
 
  4,300,586
 


 



 International Operations
 
 
2010
 
 
   576,000
 
 
            0
 
 
1,500,049
 
 
1,141,751
 
 
   816,383
 
 
     709,065
 
 
  90,097
 
 
  4,833,345
 


 Brad T. Sauer(6)
 
 
 2012
 
 
    598,490
 
 
             0
 
 
    753,024
 
 
    641,160
 
 
    586,793
 
 
      468,961
 
 
 112,946
 
 
   3,161,374
 


 Executive Vice President,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Industrial Business Group
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 



FOOTNOTES TO 2012 SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE 
        (1)   The amounts in the Stock Awards column reflect the aggregate grant date fair value of such awards computed in accordance
with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, Compensation — Stock Compensation. Assumptions made in the calculation of these amounts are
included in Note 14 to the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 14, 2013. The amounts included in this column for the performance share awards made during 2012 are calculated based on the
probable satisfaction of the performance conditions for such awards. If the highest level of performance is achieved for these performance share awards, the maximum value of these awards at the grant
date would be as follows: Mr. Thulin — $8,000,106; Mr. Buckley — $8,500,124 (one-half of such amount would be forfeited due to his
retirement in 2012); Mr. Meline — $2,556,002; Mr. Fong — $1,911,312; Mr. Shin — $1,506,048; and
Mr. Sauer — $1,506,048. The amounts in this column also include the portion of the annual incentive compensation that exceeded 200 percent of the executive's annual
target amount and that was earned by each executive during 2010 under the Company's Executive Annual Incentive Plan but paid in the form of restricted stock units granted during 2011 under the 2008
Long-Term Incentive Plan, as follows: Mr. Thulin — $2,238; Mr. Buckley — $1,296,229; Mr. Meline — $98,003; and
Mr. Shin — $249,616. 
        (2)   The amounts in the Option Awards column reflect the aggregate grant date fair value of such awards computed in accordance
with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, Compensation — Stock Compensation. Assumptions made in the calculation of these amounts are
included in Note 14 to the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal year 
58



 
Table of Contents
ended
December 31, 2012, included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 14, 2013. 
        (3)   The amounts in the Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation column reflect the annual incentive compensation
earned by each individual during 2012 under the Company's Executive Annual Incentive Plan. 
        (4)   The amounts in the Change in Pension Value and Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Earnings column reflect the actuarial
increase in the present value of each individual's pension benefits under all defined benefit pension plans of the Company, determined using the same interest rate and mortality assumptions as those
used for financial statement reporting purposes. See Note 10 to the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, included in the Company's Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 14, 2013. There were no above-market earnings on deferred compensation under the Company's
nonqualified deferred compensation programs. 
        (5)   See the All Other Compensation table below for details. 
        (6)   No amounts are reported for Mr. Meline for the year 2010, or for Mr. Fong or Mr. Sauer for the years
2011 and 2010 since they were not Named Executive Officers of the Company for those years. 
        (7)   Mr. Buckley retired from the Company effective June 1, 2012. 
 
 
  2012 All Other Compensation Table     


































 
 


 
 
401(k)
Company
Contributions
($)(1) 
 
VIP
Excess
Company
Match
($)(2) 
 
Executive
Life
Insurance
($)(3) 
 
Financial
Planning
($)(4) 
 
Personal
Aircraft
Use
($)(5) 
 
Security
Systems/
Services
($)(6) 
 
Personal
Auto
Use
($)(7) 
 
Miscellaneous
($)(8) 
 
Total
($) 
 


 Inge G. Thulin
 
 
  9,000
 
 
  60,064
 
 
 286,116
 
 
 13,230
 
 
 145,638
 
 
          0
 
 
  9,623
 
 
          0
 
 
 523,671
 


 George W. Buckley
 
 
  11,250
 
 
  149,290
 
 
             0
 
 
  13,872
 
 
  321,297
 
 
  39,200
 
 
  19,621
 
 
  23,672
 
 
  578,202
 


 David W. Meline
 
 
  11,250
 
 
   40,080
 
 
   14,870
 
 
  13,320
 
 
           0
 
 
           0
 
 
           0
 
 
           0
 
 
   79,520
 


 Ivan K. Fong
 
 
   8,633
 
 
           0
 
 
      2,218
 
 
           0
 
 
           0
 
 
           0
 
 
           0
 
 
   5,000
 
 
   15,851
 


 Hak Cheol Shin
 
 
   9,000
 
 
   31,253
 
 
   50,983
 
 
  13,230
 
 
             0
 
 
           0
 
 
           0
 
 
           0
 
 
  104,466
 


 Brad T. Sauer
 
 
   9,000
 
 
   27,213
 
 
   58,874
 
 
  17,859
 
 
             0
 
 
           0
 
 
           0
 
 
           0
 
 
  112,946
 


 
 



FOOTNOTES TO 2012 ALL OTHER COMPENSATION TABLE 
        (1)   The amounts shown reflect 3M matching and additional automatic contributions under the tax-qualified 3M
Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan. All eligible employees under this plan may receive 3M matching contributions on their pre-tax contributions to the plan on up
to six percent of their eligible pay. Eligible employees hired on or after January 1, 2009, also receive additional automatic 3M retirement income contributions equal to three percent of their
eligible pay. 
        (2)   The amounts shown reflect 3M matching contributions under the VIP Excess Plan, a nonqualified defined contribution plan.
Eligibility for this plan and its matching contributions is limited to employees whose compensation exceeds a limit established by Federal income tax law for tax-qualified defined
contribution plans. The Plan permits eligible employees to save additional amounts from their current cash compensation beyond the contribution limits established by Federal tax laws, and to receive
Company matching contributions similar to the matching contributions provided under the tax-qualified 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan. 
59



 
Table of Contents
        (3)   The amounts shown reflect the amount of premiums paid by the Company on behalf of each individual with respect to their
respective whole life or universal life insurance policies obtained for them under the Executive Life Insurance Plan. 
        (4)   These amounts reflect fees for personal financial planning and tax return preparation services paid by the Company on
behalf of each individual. 
        (5)   This amount reflects the aggregate incremental cost to the Company for Mr. Thulin's and Mr. Buckley's
personal use of corporate aircraft during 2012. This aggregate incremental cost was calculated by combining the variable operating costs of such travel, including the cost of fuel, landing fees,
parking fees, trip preparation fees, enroute communication charges, enroute navigation charges, on-board catering, and crew travel expenses. Mr. Buckley's use occurred as part of
the transition from being 3M's Chief Executive Officer to his retirement on June 1, 2012, and is nonrecurring. 
        (6)   This amount reflects the expenses incurred by 3M during 2012 (prior to the date of his retirement) for monitoring
services and for the completion of security upgrades at the personal residences of Mr. Buckley. 
        (7)   This amount reflects the aggregate incremental cost to the Company for Mr. Thulin's and Mr. Buckley's
personal use of Company-provided automobiles and local ground transportation. These costs include lease payments (or the amortized purchase cost) for the vehicles, fuel, insurance premiums, repairs,
and maintenance. 
        (8)   These amounts reflect fees for personal legal and consulting services paid by the Company on behalf of
Mr. Buckley, and fees for personal legal services paid by the Company on behalf of Mr. Fong. 
 Grants of Plan-Based Awards  
        The following table reflects the various equity and non-equity plan awards granted to the Named Executive Officers during
2012. With the exception of the annual incentive compensation earned by such Named Executive Officers under the Executive Annual Incentive Plan, all of the awards referred to in this table were
granted under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan. All of the restricted stock unit awards listed in this table include the right to receive a cash payment of dividend equivalents (the
dividends that would have been paid on the same number of shares of 3M common stock during the vesting period) at the vesting date. The amounts in the Grant Date Fair Value of Stock and Option Awards
column were determined in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, Compensation — Stock Compensation and, in the case of
performance share awards, are based upon the probable outcome of the applicable performance conditions. Assumptions made in the calculation of these amounts are included in Note 14 to the
Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on February 14, 2013. 
60



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  2012 Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table     










































 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All
Other
Stock
Awards:
Number
of Shares
of Stock
or Units
(#) 
 
All
Other
Option
Awards:
Number of
Securities
Underlying
Options
(#)(6) 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Estimated Future Payouts Under Non-Equity Incentive Plan Awards(2) 
 
Estimated Future Payouts Under Equity Incentive Plan Awards(3)(4)(5) 
 
Exercise
or Base
Price of
Option
Awards
($/sh)(7) 
 
Grant
Date Fair
Value of
Stock and
Option
Awards ($) 
 


Name



 
Type of
Grant(1) 
 
Grant
Date 
 
Target
($) 
 
Maximum
($) 
 
Threshold
(#) 
 
Target
(#) 
 
Maximum
(#) 
 


 



 Inge G. Thulin
 
12PS
 
 
02/07/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  9,872
 
 
49,359
 
 
  98,718
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4,000,053
 


 



 
Option
 
 
02/07/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
204,804
 
 
87.89
 
 
3,059,772
 


 



 
AIP
 
 
              n/a
 
 
1,900,958
 
 
11,109,075
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 George W. Buckley
 
 12PS
 
 
 02/07/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10,489
 
 
 52,444
 
 
 104,888
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,250,062
 


 
 
AIP
 
 
              n/a
 
 
2,795,000
 
 
11,109,075
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 David W. Meline
 
 12PS
 
 
 02/07/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   3,154
 
 
 15,770
 
 
   31,540
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,278,001
 


 



 
Option
 
 
02/07/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  56,570
 
 
87.89
 
 
   845,156
 


 



 
AIP
 
 
              n/a
 
 
   633,886
 
 
11,109,075
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Ivan K. Fong
 
 12PS
 
 
 11/01/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   1,322
 
 
   6,609
 
 
   13,218
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    581,658
 


 
 
11PS
 
 
11/01/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   675
 
 
  3,373
 
 
  6,746
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   304,751
 


 
 
10PS
 
 
11/01/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   149
 
 
     747
 
 
    1,494
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     69,247
 


 
 
Option
 
 
11/01/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  50,423
 
 
89.25
 
 
   784,229
 


 
 
RSU
 
 
11/01/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11,205(8)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,000,046
 


 
 
AIP
 
 
              n/a
 
 
   495,000
 
 
11,109,075
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 Hak Cheol Shin
 
 12PS
 
 
 02/07/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   1,858
 
 
   9,292
 
 
   18,584
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    753,024
 


 



 
Option
 
 
02/07/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  46,314
 
 
87.89
 
 
   691,931
 


 



 
Option
 
 
02/16/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    9,340
 
 
87.65
 
 
     79,737
 


 



 
AIP
 
 
              n/a
 
 
   491,922
 
 
11,109,075
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Brad T. Sauer
 
 12PS
 
 
 02/07/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   1,858
 
 
   9,292
 
 
   18,584
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    753,024
 


 
 
Option
 
 
02/07/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  33,345
 
 
87.89
 
 
   498,174
 


 
 
Option
 
 
05/04/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  16,556
 
 
88.67
 
 
   142,986
 


 
 
AIP
 
 
              n/a
 
 
   454,104
 
 
11,109,075
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 




FOOTNOTES TO 2012 GRANTS OF PLAN-BASED AWARDS TABLE 
        (1)   Abbreviations for the Type of Grant: 12PS = 2012 performance shares; 11PS = 2011 performance shares;
10PS = 2010 performance shares; Option = stock options; RSU = restricted stock units; AIP = annual incentive. 
        (2)   The amounts shown as the Estimated Future Payouts Under Non-Equity Incentive Plan Awards reflect the target
and maximum amounts that may be earned by each individual during 2012 under the Executive Annual Incentive Plan. This Plan establishes a maximum amount of annual incentive compensation that may be
earned by each covered executive during a plan year (established for purposes of complying with Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code), which for each of the Named Executive Officers was
one-quarter of one percent of the Company's Adjusted Net Income for 2012, and then permits the Compensation Committee to pay each covered executive less than this maximum amount based on
such factors as it deems relevant. These factors include, but are not limited to, individual performance, each individual's target annual incentive, and the performance of the Company and its business
units as measured by the three metrics used to determine payouts under the Company's broad-based annual incentive plan (see "Elements of the Compensation Program — Annual Incentive"
in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis of this Proxy Statement). While the Committee considers and is guided by the amounts that would be payable under the broad-based annual incentive plan
(based on the performance of 3M and its business units) if the Named Executive Officers were covered by such plan, it is not bound by these results and may decide to pay different amounts. 
        (3)   The amounts shown as the Estimated Future Payouts Under Equity Incentive Plan Awards with respect to 2012 performance
shares reflect the threshold, target, and maximum number of shares of 3M common stock that may be earned by each individual as a result of the 2012 performance shares granted to each individual during
2012 under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The actual number of shares of 3M common stock to be delivered as a result of these performance shares will be determined by the performance
of the Company during the three-year performance period of 2012, 2013, and 2014, 
61



 
Table of Contents
as
measured against three performance criteria selected by the Compensation Committee (Organic Sales Volume Growth, Return on Invested Capital, and the New Product Vitality Index). For more
information on these performance criteria and the formulas for determining the number of shares of 3M common stock payable as a result of these performance shares, please refer to the
"Long-Term Incentives — 2012 Annual Grants" portion of the Compensation Discussion and Analysis. 
        (4)   The amounts shown as the Estimated Future Payouts Under Equity Incentive Plan Awards with respect to 2011 performance
shares reflect the threshold, target, and maximum number of shares of 3M common stock that may be earned by Mr. Fong as a result of the 2011 performance shares granted to him during 2012 under
the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The actual number of shares of 3M common stock to be delivered as a result of these performance shares will be determined by the performance of the
Company during the three-year performance period of 2011, 2012, and 2013, as measured against three performance criteria selected by the Compensation Committee (Organic Sales Volume
Growth, Return on Invested Capital, and the New Product Vitality Index). These 2011 performance shares were granted to Mr. Fong upon his appointment as Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and
General Counsel. Consistent with the Company's treatment of other newly-appointed senior executives, these performance shares were intended to provide him with a portion of the long-term
incentive compensation granted to comparable executives in 2011, prorated to reflect the amount of time in his new position. For more information on these performance criteria and the formulas for
determining the number of shares of 3M common stock payable as a result of these performance shares, please refer to the "Long-Term Incentives — Other Grants" portion of
the Compensation Discussion and Analysis. 
        (5)   The amounts shown as the Estimated Future Payouts Under Equity Incentive Plan Awards with respect to 2010 performance
shares reflect the threshold, target, and maximum number of shares of 3M common stock that may be earned by Mr. Fong as a result of the 2010 performance shares granted to him during 2012 under
the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The actual number of shares of 3M common stock to be delivered as a result of these performance shares will be determined by the performance of the
Company during the three-year performance period of 2010, 2011, and 2012, as measured against three performance criteria selected by the Compensation Committee (Organic Sales Volume
Growth, Return on Invested Capital, and the New Product Vitality Index). These 2010 performance shares were granted to Mr. Fong upon his appointment as Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and
General Counsel. Consistent with the Company's treatment of other newly-appointed senior executives, these performance shares were intended to provide him with a portion of the long-term
incentive compensation granted to comparable executives in 2010, prorated to reflect the amount of time in his new position. For more information on these performance criteria and the formulas for
determining the number of shares of 3M common stock payable as a result of these performance shares, please refer to the "Long-Term Incentives — Other Grants" portion of
the Compensation Discussion and Analysis. 
        (6)   The amounts shown as the All Other Option Awards reflect the numbers of nonqualified stock options granted to each
individual during 2012 under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The options granted on February 7, 2012, were part of the Company's annual grant of stock options to the
approximately 5,600 employees participating in the plan, and they vest in installments of one-third on each of the first three anniversaries of the grant date. The options granted to
Mr. Fong on November 1, 2012, were part of the compensation offered to him in order to persuade him to join the Company as a new employee. The options granted to Mr. Shin on
February 16, 2012, and to Mr. Sauer on May 4, 2012, represent progressive stock options (commonly referred to as reloads) issued upon their exercise (via a stock swap, using
shares of 3M common stock already owned by the optionee) of nonqualified options granted under pre-2005 versions of the Management Stock Ownership Program which provided for the receipt of
such reloads when the optionee pays the exercise price in shares of the Company's common stock. 3M offered progressive stock options with respect to nonqualified stock options granted before May 2005
to encourage executives to acquire and accumulate actual shares of 3M common stock by exercising their stock options early rather than holding such options until the end of their term and then 
62



 
Table of Contents
immediately
selling the shares acquired upon exercise. Stock options granted by the Company since May 2005 have not been eligible for the grant of new progressive stock options upon their exercise.
Progressive stock options vest in full six months following the grant date. 
        (7)   The exercise price for all stock options granted under the Company's 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan is set at
the fair market value of a share of 3M common stock on the option grant date (as required by the provisions of the plan). As provided in the plan, the fair market value of a share of 3M common stock
is computed as the closing price at which 3M common stock traded on the New York Stock Exchange on the applicable date. 
        (8)   This amount reflects a grant of restricted stock units to Mr. Fong upon his appointment as Senior Vice President,
Legal Affairs and General Counsel. They were granted to him as part of the compensation offered to Mr. Fong in order to persuade him to join the Company as a new employee. These restricted
stock units vest in full on the fourth anniversary of the grant date, assuming continued employment, or immediately upon the termination of his employment due to disability or the termination of his
employment by the Company without cause. 
63




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
        2012 OUTSTANDING EQUITY AWARDS AT FISCAL YEAR-END TABLE     


































 
 


 
 
Option Awards
 
Stock Awards
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


Name
 
Number of
Securities
Underlying
Unexercised
Options (#)
Exercisable
 
Number of
Securities
Underlying
Unexercised
Options (#)
Unexercisable
 
Option
Exercise
Price ($)
 
Option
Expiration
Date
 
Number of
Shares or
Units of Stock
That Have Not
Vested (#)
 
Market Value
of Shares or
Units of Stock
That Have Not
Vested ($)
 
Equity
Incentive Plan
Awards:
Number of
Unearned
Shares, Units
or Other
Rights That
Have Not
Vested (#)
 
Equity
Incentive Plan
Awards:
Market or
Payout Value
of Unearned
Shares, Units
or Other
Rights That
Have Not
Vested ($)
 


 
 


 



 Inge G. Thulin
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  8,499(9)  
 
 
   789,132
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  8,931(9)  
 
 
   829,243
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
49,359(10)
 
 
4,582,983
 


 



 
 
    6,990
 
 
            0     
 
 
86.80
 
 
05/13/2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
  20,288
 
 
            0     
 
 
97.21
 
 
05/13/2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
  56,114
 
 
            0     
 
 
84.40
 
 
05/09/2014
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
  67,975
 
 
            0     
 
 
76.80
 
 
05/08/2015
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
  52,000
 
 
            0     
 
 
87.35
 
 
05/09/2016
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
  45,758
 
 
            0     
 
 
84.78
 
 
05/08/2017
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
  50,792
 
 
            0     
 
 
77.18
 
 
05/13/2018
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
  59,584
 
 
            0     
 
 
54.11
 
 
02/08/2019
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
  33,443
 
 
  16,723(1)
 
 
78.72
 
 
02/07/2020
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
  14,519
 
 
  29,041(2)
 
 
89.47
 
 
02/08/2021
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
          0
 
 
204,804(3)
 
 
87.89
 
 
02/07/2022
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  3,294(5)
 
 
   305,848
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        24(6)
 
 
        2,228
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 George W. Buckley
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50,590(9)  
 
 
4,697,282
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26,222(10)
 
 
2,434,713
 


 
 
 
183,522
 
 
            0     
 
 
87.35
 
 
05/09/2016
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
165,909
 
 
            0     
 
 
84.78
 
 
05/08/2017
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
152,441
 
 
  76,222(1)
 
 
78.72
 
 
02/07/2020
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
  71,252
 
 
142,507(2)
 
 
89.47
 
 
02/08/2021
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16,581(5)
 
 
1,539,546
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14,125(6)
 
 
1,311,506
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 David W. Meline
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  2,275(9)  
 
 
   211,234
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  8,971(9)  
 
 
   832,957
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15,770(10)
 
 
1,464,245
 


 



 
 
  20,136
 
 
            0     
 
 
71.12
 
 
08/31/2018
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
  10,709
 
 
    5,356(1)
 
 
78.72
 
 
02/07/2020
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
    3,845
 
 
    7,693(2)
 
 
89.47
 
 
02/08/2021
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
          0
 
 
  56,570(3)
 
 
87.89
 
 
02/07/2022
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     847(5)
 
 
     78,644
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  6,173(7)
 
 
   573,163
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  1,095(6)
 
 
   101,671
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Ivan K. Fong
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  3,373(9)  
 
 
   313,183
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  6,609(10)
 
 
   613,646
 


 
 
 
          0
 
 
  50,423(4)
 
 
89.25
 
 
11/01/2022
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11,205(8)
 
 
1,040,384
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 Hak Cheol Shin
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  8,499(9)  
 
 
   789,132
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  9,292(10)
 
 
   862,762
 


 



 
 
    5,028
 
 
            0     
 
 
86.80
 
 
05/13/2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
    9,340
 
 
            0     
 
 
87.65
 
 
05/13/2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
  24,353
 
 
            0     
 
 
84.40
 
 
05/09/2014
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
  17,043
 
 
            0     
 
 
76.80
 
 
05/08/2015
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
  60,000
 
 
            0     
 
 
87.35
 
 
05/09/2016
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
  35,441
 
 
            0     
 
 
84.78
 
 
05/08/2017
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
  47,528
 
 
            0     
 
 
77.18
 
 
05/13/2018
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
  58,772
 
 
            0     
 
 
54.11
 
 
02/08/2019
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
  38,391
 
 
  19,196(1)
 
 
78.72
 
 
02/07/2020
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
  16,531
 
 
  33,064(2)
 
 
89.47
 
 
02/08/2021
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
          0
 
 
  46,314(3)
 
 
87.89
 
 
02/07/2022
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  3,388(5)
 
 
   314,576
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  2,720(6)
 
 
   252,552
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Brad T. Sauer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  8,499(9)  
 
 
   789,132
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  9,292(10)
 
 
   862,762
 


 
 
 
    3,621
 
 
            0     
 
 
96.83
 
 
05/13/2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
        974
 
 
            0     
 
 
84.40
 
 
05/09/2014
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
  20,380
 
 
            0     
 
 
96.83
 
 
05/09/2014
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
  16,556
 
 
            0     
 
 
88.67
 
 
05/09/2014
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
  63,122
 
 
            0     
 
 
76.80
 
 
05/08/2015
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
  52,000
 
 
            0     
 
 
87.35
 
 
05/09/2016
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
  38,979
 
 
            0     
 
 
84.78
 
 
05/08/2017
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
  45,508
 
 
            0     
 
 
77.18
 
 
05/13/2018
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
  59,216
 
 
            0     
 
 
54.11
 
 
02/08/2019
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
  33,443
 
 
  16,723(1)
 
 
78.72
 
 
02/07/2020
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
  14,519
 
 
  29,041(2)
 
 
89.47
 
 
02/08/2021
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
          0
 
 
  33,345(3)
 
 
87.89
 
 
02/07/2022
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  3,388(5)
 
 
   314,576
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 




64



 
Table of Contents
FOOTNOTES TO 2012 OUTSTANDING EQUITY AWARDS
AT FISCAL YEAR-END TABLE 
        (1)   These stock options vested in full on February 9, 2013. 
        (2)   These stock options vested or will vest in installments of one-half on February 8, 2013, and
February 8, 2014. 
        (3)   These stock options vested or will vest in installments of one-third on each of February 7, 2013,
February 7, 2014, and February 7, 2015. 
        (4)   These stock options will vest in installments of one-third on each of November 1, 2015,
November 1, 2016, and November 1, 2017, or immediately in the event of the termination of Mr. Fong's employment by the Company without cause. 
        (5)   These restricted stock units vested in full on February 9, 2013. 
        (6)   These restricted stock units will vest in full on January 2, 2014. 
        (7)   These restricted stock units will vest in full on September 1, 2013. 
        (8)   These restricted stock units will vest in full on November 1, 2016, or immediately in the event of the termination
of Mr. Fong's employment by the Company without cause. 
        (9)   The shares of 3M common stock to be delivered as a result of the Company's performance over the three-year
performance period ending December 31, 2013, will not vest until December 31, 2013. Under the terms of the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, these shares of 3M common stock will
be delivered no later than March 15, 2014. In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission's regulations, the number of shares and payout value for the performance shares granted in
2011 reflect the target payout under the formula for this grant since the Company's performance during the first two years of the three-year performance period has exceeded the threshold
levels for this grant. 
        (10) The shares of 3M common stock to be delivered as a result of the Company's performance over the three-year
performance period ending December 31, 2014, will not vest until December 31, 2014. Under the terms of the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, these shares of 3M common stock will
be delivered no later than March 15, 2015. In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission's regulations, the number of shares and payout value for the performance shares granted in
2012 reflect the target payout under the formula for this grant since the Company's performance during the first year of the three-year performance period has exceeded the threshold levels
for this grant. 
65



 
Table of Contents
 
 
        2012 OPTION EXERCISES AND STOCK VESTED TABLE     

















 


 
 
Option Exercises and Stock Vested


 


 
 
Option Awards 
 
Stock Awards 


Name



 
Number of Shares
Acquired on
Exercise (#) 
 
Value Realized
on Exercise ($) 
 
Number of Shares
Acquired on
Vesting (#) 
 
Value Realized
on Vesting ($) 


 Inge G. Thulin
 
  14,691(1)
 
     339,362
 
  54,411(6)  
 
  4,951,299


 George W. Buckley
 
459,312(2)
 
12,253,871
 
162,537(7)  
 
15,300,046


 David W. Meline
 
  16,636(3)
 
     560,509
 
  20,770(8)  
 
  1,988,859


 Ivan K. Fong
 
            0     
 
              0
 
    1,031(9)  
 
     104,636


 Hak Cheol Shin
 
  27,036(4)
 
     655,659
 
  61,374(10)
 
  5,670,858


 Brad T. Sauer
 
  70,413(5)
 
     824,710
 
  54,778(11)
 
  4,983,552


 




FOOTNOTES TO 2012 OPTION EXERCISES
AND STOCK VESTED TABLE 
        (1)   The stock options exercised by Mr. Thulin were granted on May 14, 2002, and had an exercise price of
$64.50. Of this total number of options exercised, Mr. Thulin retained a total of 2,220 additional shares of 3M common stock after tax withholding and payment of the exercise price for these
options. 
        (2)   The stock options exercised by Mr. Buckley were granted between May 13, 2008, and February 9, 2009,
and had exercise prices between $54.11 and $77.18. Mr. Buckley did not retain any additional shares of 3M common stock as a result of these option exercises. 
        (3)   The stock options exercised by Mr. Meline were granted on February 9, 2009, and had an exercise price of
$54.11. Of this total number of options exercised, Mr. Meline retained a total of 3,648 additional shares of 3M common stock after tax withholding and payment of the exercise price for these
options. 
        (4)   The stock options exercised by Mr. Shin were granted between May 14, 2002, and May 13, 2003, and had
exercise prices between $61.85 and $64.50. Of this total number of options exercised, Mr. Shin retained a total of 4,289 additional shares of 3M common stock after tax withholding and payment
of the exercise prices for these options. 
        (5)   The stock options exercised by Mr. Sauer were granted between May 14, 2002, and May 4, 2010, and had
exercise prices between $64.50 and $88.65. Of this total number of options exercised, Mr. Sauer retained a total of 3,588 additional shares of 3M common stock after tax withholding and payment
of the exercise prices for these options. 
        (6)   These shares were acquired by Mr. Thulin upon the vesting of restricted stock units granted to him under the 2005
Management Stock Ownership Program and the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, and upon the vesting of performance shares granted to him under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Of
this total number of shares, 25,481 were attributable to restricted stock units granted on March 3, 2008, 12,664 were attributable to restricted stock units granted on February 9, 2009,
3,294 were attributable to restricted stock units granted on February 9, 2010, and 12,972 were attributable to his 2010 performance shares for which the three-year performance
period was completed on December 31, 2012. 
        (7)   These shares were acquired by Mr. Buckley upon the vesting of restricted stock units granted to him under the 2008
Long-Term Incentive Plan, and upon the vesting of performance shares granted to him under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Of this total number of shares, 70,477 were
attributable to restricted stock units granted on February 9, 2009, 1,355 were attributable to restricted stock units granted on September 1, 2009, 16,581 were attributable to restricted
stock units granted on February 9, 2010, and 74,124 were attributable to his 2010 performance shares for which the three-year performance period was completed on December 31,
2012. 
66



 
Table of Contents
        (8)   These shares were acquired by Mr. Meline upon the vesting of restricted stock units granted to him under the 2008
Long-Term Incentive Plan, and upon the vesting of performance shares granted to him under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Of this total number of shares, 4,159 were
attributable to restricted stock units granted on February 9, 2009, 847 were attributable to restricted stock units granted on February 9, 2010, 3,835 were attributable to restricted
stock units granted on April 1, 2011, and 11,929 were attributable to his 2010 performance shares for which the three-year performance period was completed on December 31,
2012. 
        (9)   These shares were acquired by Mr. Fong upon the vesting of performance shares granted to him under the 2008
Long-Term Incentive Plan. All 1,031 of these shares were attributable to his 2010 performance shares for which the three-year performance period was completed on
December 31, 2012. 
        (10) These shares were acquired by Mr. Shin upon the vesting of restricted stock units granted to him under the 2008
Long-Term Incentive Plan, and upon the vesting of performance shares granted to him under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Of this total number of shares, 32,077 were
attributable to restricted stock units granted on December 1, 2008, 12,937 were attributable to restricted stock units granted on February 9, 2009, 3,388 were attributable to restricted
stock units granted on February 9, 2010, and 12,972 were attributable to his 2010 performance shares for which the three-year performance period was completed on December 31,
2012. 
        (11) These shares were acquired by Mr. Sauer upon the vesting of restricted stock units granted to him under the 2005
Management Stock Ownership Program and the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, and upon the vesting of performance shares granted to him under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Of
this total number of shares, 25,481 were attributable to restricted stock units granted on March 3, 2008, 12,937 were attributable to restricted stock units granted on February 9, 2009,
3,388 were attributable to restricted stock units granted on February 9, 2010, and 12,972 were attributable to his 2010 performance shares for which the three-year performance
period was completed on December 31, 2012. 
67



 
Table of Contents
 
 
        PENSION BENEFITS     
        The following table shows the present value of the accumulated benefits payable to each of the Named Executive Officers, as well as the
number of years of service credited to each individual, under each of the Company's defined benefit pension plans (including any supplemental arrangements pursuant to their employment agreements)
determined using the same interest rate and mortality assumptions as those used for financial statement reporting purposes. See Note 10 to the Company's audited financial statements for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 14, 2013. 

















 


2012 Pension Benefits Table


 


Name



 
Plan Name 
 
Number
of Years
Credited
Service (#) 
 
Present
Value of
Accumulated
Benefits ($) 
 
Payments
During
Last
Fiscal
Year ($) 






 Inge G. Thulin
 
Employee Retirement Income Plan
 
33
 
  1,556,554*
 
          0






 
 
Nonqualified Pension Plan
 
33
 
  8,643,354  
 
          0


 George W. Buckley
 
Employee Retirement Income Plan
 
  7
 
     301,332  
 
  12,159


 
 
Nonqualified Pension Plan
 
  7
 
  6,709,722  
 
258,480


 
 
Supplemental Retirement Plan
 
  7
 
21,664,331  
 
834,578






  David W. Meline
 
Employee Retirement Income Plan
 
  4
 
     170,709  
 
          0






 
 
Nonqualified Pension Plan
 
  4
 
     549,617  
 
          0


 Ivan K. Fong
 
None
 
 
 
 
 
 






  Hak Cheol Shin
 
Employee Retirement Income Plan
 
28
 
  1,145,346  
 
          0






 
 
Nonqualified Pension Plan
 
28
 
  3,890,906  
 
          0


 Brad T. Sauer
 
Employee Retirement Income Plan
 
30
 
  1,133,367  
 
          0


 
 
Nonqualified Pension Plan
 
30
 
  3,426,461  
 
          0


 






*A
portion of Mr. Thulin's benefits will actually be paid by a pension plan maintained by the Company's subsidiary in Sweden (based on the years he was
employed in Sweden before transferring to the United States), and the amount paid by this plan in Sweden will reduce the amount paid by the ERIP. 

        The
Employee Retirement Income Plan ("ERIP") is a tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan maintained by 3M for its eligible employees in the United States. Effective
January 1, 2001, the Company amended the ERIP to include a pension equity formula for (1) employees hired or rehired on or after January 1, 2001, and (2) employees who
voluntarily elected the pension equity formula during the one-time choice election period in 2001. The ERIP was closed to new participants effective January 1, 2009, meaning that
employees hired or rehired on or after January 1, 2009 (including Mr. Fong), do not participate in the plan. Of the Named Executive Officers, Mr. Thulin, Mr. Shin, and
Mr. Sauer participate under the non-pension equity formula of the ERIP (the Portfolio I Plan), while Mr. Buckley and Mr. Meline participate under the pension equity
formula of the ERIP (the Portfolio II Plan). Retirement benefits under the ERIP are based on an employee's years of service and average annual earnings during the employee's four
highest-paid consecutive years of service. As applied to the Named Executive Officers, earnings for purposes of the ERIP include base salary and annual incentive compensation. All benefits
earned under the ERIP by the Named Executive Officers will be payable in the form of life annuities. 
        Under
the Portfolio I Plan, employees earn annual benefits payable at retirement generally equal to 1.15 percent of their high-four average annual earnings multiplied
by their years of service plus 0.35 percent of their high-four average annual earnings in excess of a Social Security breakpoint 
68



 
Table of Contents
multiplied
by their years of service (up to a maximum of 35 years). The Social Security breakpoint is an average of the Social Security taxable wage bases for each of the 35 years ending
with the year each employee qualifies for receiving unreduced Social Security retirement benefits. Under the Portfolio I Plan, an employee may retire with an unreduced pension at age 60 (61 or 62 for
employees born after 1942) and if the employee's age and service at the time of retirement total at least 90 (91 or 92 for employees born after 1942) the employee would receive a Social Security
bridge payment until age 62. Mr. Thulin and Mr. Shin are eligible to retire with reduced early retirement benefits under the Portfolio I Plan, with the reduction being equal to
5 percent of the pension otherwise payable for each year that they retire prior to age 61. 
        Under
the Portfolio II Plan, employees earn pension credits (from 3 percent to 12 percent) for each year of employment based on their age and accumulated years of service
under the Plan. Once their employment ends, these accumulated pension credits are multiplied by their high-four average annual earnings and added to an amount determined by multiplying
one-half of these accumulated pension credits by their high-four average annual earnings in excess of a Social Security integration level (70 percent of the Social
Security taxable wage base in the year employment ends). The sum of these two amounts is then converted into an annuity payable over the lifetime of the employee using fixed conversion factors. The
Portfolio II Plan does not provide any subsidies for early retirement. 
        As
a tax-qualified plan, the ERIP is subject to a variety of limits that apply to both the amount of any employee's earnings that may be considered when determining the
benefits earned under the plan as well as the maximum amount of benefits that any employee may earn. The Nonqualified Pension Plan is designed to provide additional benefits to employees, including
the Named Executive Officers, affected by these limits. The amount of benefits earned under this Nonqualified Pension Plan generally equal the amount of benefits an employee was not able to earn under
the ERIP as a result of the limits imposed by Federal tax laws. The benefits earned under this Nonqualified Pension Plan are generally paid in the form of a single lump-sum cash payment
following the termination of their employment (subject to any applicable delay under Federal tax laws). Current employees were given a one-time opportunity during 2008 to elect to receive
their benefits earned under this Nonqualified Pension Plan in the form of a life annuity following their retirement, and both Mr. Buckley and Mr. Meline elected to receive their benefits
in the form of a life annuity. 
        Mr. Buckley
also earned supplemental retirement benefits pursuant to his now-expired employment agreement with the Company. These supplemental benefits, which were
negotiated at the time he agreed to leave his previous employer and join 3M, were designed to replace the pension benefits he failed to earn under the plan of his previous employer because his accrued
benefits under that plan do not grow with future increases in compensation. These supplemental benefits are payable in the form of a life annuity. 
69




 










Table of Contents 

 NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION  

        The following table reflects the participation during 2012 by the Named Executive Officers in three nonqualified deferred compensation
plans offered by the Company. The Deferred Compensation Excess Plan allows eligible employees to defer for a number of years or until retirement from the Company the receipt of base salary and the
portion of their annual incentive compensation paid in cash. The Performance Awards Deferred Compensation Plan allows eligible employees to defer for a number of years or until retirement from the
Company the payout of their performance share or performance unit awards under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The VIP Excess Plan allows eligible employees to defer until retirement
from the Company the receipt of base salary and annual incentive compensation. All three plans generally allow the eligible employees to elect to receive payment of their account balances in the form
of either a single lump sum payment or in up to ten annual installments. With the exception of deferrals of performance shares under the Performance Awards Deferred Compensation Plan,
earnings are credited to the amounts deferred under all three plans based on the returns paid on the investment funds available to participants in 3M's qualified 401(k) plan or a fixed rate of return
based on corporate bond yields (as selected by each participant). Earnings are credited to the deferrals of performance shares under the Performance Awards Deferred Compensation Plan based on the
return on shares of 3M common stock, including reinvested dividends. 



















 


2012 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Table 


Name



 
Executive
Contributions in
Last FY ($)(1) 
 
Registrant
Contributions in
Last FY ($)(2) 
 
Aggregate
Earnings in
Last FY ($)(3) 
 
Aggregate
Withdrawals/
Distributions ($) 
 
Aggregate
Balance at Last
FYE ($)(4) 


 



 Inge G. Thulin
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 VIP Excess Plan
 
100,107
 
  60,064
 
     10,830
 
0
 
     448,059


 George W. Buckley
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 VIP Excess Plan
 
232,728
 
149,290
 
   411,772
 
0
 
  3,293,407


 Performance
 
          0
 
          0
 
1,638,519
 
0
 
12,294,050


 Awards Deferred
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Compensation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Plan
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 David W. Meline
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 VIP Excess Plan
 
  73,186
 
  40,080
 
   55,562
 
0
 
     485,332


 



 Performance
 
          0
 
          0
 
   110,018
 
0
 
     752,939


 



 Awards Deferred
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 Compensation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 Plan
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 Deferred
 
          0
 
          0
 
   105,125
 
0
 
     721,221


 



 Compensation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 Excess Plan
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Ivan K. Fong
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 None
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 Hak Cheol Shin
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 VIP Excess Plan
 
  52,087
 
  31,253
 
     71,009
 
0
 
     778,848


 Brad T. Sauer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 VIP Excess Plan
 
  53,415
 
  27,213
 
        8,549
 
0
 
     326,807


 




FOOTNOTES TO 2012 NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION TABLE 
        (1)   With the exception of the amounts contributed during 2012 by Mr. Sauer from the payout of his annual incentive
compensation earned during 2011, all amounts contributed by these individuals during 2012 have been included in the Summary Compensation Table as Salary or Non-Equity Incentive Plan
Compensation earned in 2011 or 2012. Since Mr. Sauer was not a Named Executive Officer for 2011, the 
70



 
Table of Contents
Summary
Compensation Table does not reflect any of his 2011 annual incentive compensation from which these contributions were made during 2012. 
        (2)   All amounts contributed by the Company on behalf of these individuals during 2012 are included in the "All Other
Compensation" column of the Summary Compensation Table. 
        (3)   None of these amounts is included in the Summary Compensation Table as compensation earned in 2012. 
        (4)   Of the amounts reported in this column, $265,325 of Mr. Thulin's balance at the end of 2012, $11,366,033 of
Mr. Buckley's balances at the end of 2012, $93,163 of Mr. Meline's balances at the end of 2012, $10,315 of Mr. Shin's balance at the end of 2012, and $45,792 of Mr. Sauer's
balance at the end of 2012 were reported previously as compensation in the Company's Summary Compensation Table for prior years. 
71



 
Table of Contents

 POTENTIAL PAYMENTS UPON TERMINATION OR CHANGE IN CONTROL  

        As reflected in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis portion of this Proxy Statement, 3M has no employment agreements with any of
the Named Executive Officers nor does it have any severance or change in control plans or arrangements that would provide severance benefits to any of the Named Executive Officers in the event of the
termination of their employment or a change in control of the Company. However, certain of the Company's executive compensation and benefit plans provide all participants (including the Named
Executive Officers) with certain rights or the right to receive payments in the event of the termination of their employment or upon a change in control of the Company. The terms applicable to these
potential rights or payments in various situations are described below. Payments or benefits under other plans and arrangements that are generally provided on a non-discriminatory basis to
all similarly situated employees of the Company upon the termination of their employment are not described, including (a) accrued base salary; (b) annual incentive earned with respect to
completed performance periods; (c) retiree welfare benefits provided to substantially all of the Company's U.S. employees, including retiree medical and dental benefits; (d) distribution
of vested account balances under the Company's qualified 401(k) plan; (e) accrued pension benefits under the Company's defined benefit pension plans payable following an employee's retirement
or other termination of employment (the amounts of these benefits earned by the Named Executive Officers are reported in the 2012 Pension Benefits Table); and (f) distribution of account
balances under the Company's nonqualified deferred compensation plans (the amount of these account balances of the Named Executive Officers are reported in the 2012 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation
Table). 

 Right and Payments upon Retirement  

        Following retirement (termination of employment after attaining age 55 with at least five years of employment service with the
Company), the Named Executive Officers are entitled to receive:


•continued vesting of stock options previously granted under the Company's stock plans, and the opportunity to exercise
vested stock options previously granted under such plans during the remainder of the original term (up to 10 years) of such options; 
•continued vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units previously granted under the Company's stock plans;  
•for those Named Executive Officers whose initial appointment to a 3M executive position occurred prior to
January 1, 2006, payment for all previously granted performance shares upon completion of the respective three-year performance period (prorated to reflect the portion of the year
worked only with respect to the performance shares granted in the year of retirement); and 
•for those Named Executive Officers whose initial appointment to a 3M executive position occurred on or after
January 1, 2006, payment for all previously granted performance shares upon completion of the respective three-year performance period (prorated to reflect the portion of the
three-year performance period that occurred prior to the date of the Named Executive Officer's retirement). 


 Rights and Payments upon Termination due to Death or Disability  

        In the event of the termination of their employment due to death or disability, the Named Executive Officers are entitled to
receive:


•in the event of termination due to disability, continued vesting of stock options previously granted under the Company's
stock plans, and the opportunity to exercise vested stock options previously granted under such plans during the remainder of the original term (up to 10 years) of such options;  
•in the event of termination due to disability, immediate vesting of all restricted stock and restricted stock units
previously granted under the Company's stock plans; 

72



 
Table of Contents


•in the event of termination due to death, immediate vesting of all unvested stock options, restricted stock and restricted
stock units previously granted under the Company's stock plans, and the opportunity for the Named Executive Officer's estate or beneficiaries to exercise all vested stock options within the two years
following the date of death (but not beyond the original expiration date of any such stock option); 
•in the event of termination due to disability, payment for all previously granted performance shares upon completion of
the respective three-year performance period; 
•in the event of termination due to death, payment to the Named Executive Officer's estate or beneficiaries no later than
March 15 of the year following the year in which the Named Executive Officer died for all previously granted performance shares (in the same amount as paid for the performance shares granted to
other Named Executive Officers if the date of death occurs after the end of the three-year performance period for such shares, and at the lesser of the target value or such other amount as
determined by the Committee in its discretion if the date of death occurs before the end of the three-year performance period for such shares); and  
•in the event of termination due to death, payment to the Named Executive Officer's beneficiaries of the proceeds from the
life insurance policies provided for such Named Executive Officer pursuant to the Company's Executive Life Insurance Plan. 


 Rights and Payments upon Termination for any other reason  

        In the event of the termination of their employment for any reason other than retirement, death, or disability, the Named Executive
Officers are entitled to receive:


•the opportunity to exercise vested stock options granted under the Company's stock plans within the first 90 days
following the termination date (but beyond the original expiration date of any such stock option), at which time any remaining vested stock options are forfeited; and  
•all unvested stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, and performance shares are forfeited immediately
(with the exception of the stock options and restricted stock units granted to Mr. Fong on November 1, 2012, which vest immediately upon the termination of his employment by the Company
without cause). 


 Rights and Payments upon a Change in Control  

        In the event of a change in control of the Company (as defined for purposes of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code), the
Named Executive Officers are entitled to receive:


•for awards with a grant date prior to February 9, 2010, the immediate vesting of all outstanding stock options,
restricted stock, and restricted stock units granted under the Company's stock plans and the immediate termination and payout of all outstanding performance shares; and  
•in the event of the termination of a Named Executive Officer's employment without Cause or if the Named Executive Officer
resigns for Good Reason within 18 months following a change in control, the immediate vesting of all outstanding stock options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units granted under the
Company's stock plans with a grant date of February 9, 2010, or later and the immediate termination and payout of all outstanding performance shares. 

For
purposes of these awards, "Cause" means a material violation of any policy of the Company, or embezzlement or theft of property belonging to the Company, and "Good Reason" means (i) a
material diminution in the Named Executive Officer's position, authority, duties, or responsibilities as in effect immediately prior to the change in control, (ii) a material diminution in the
Named Executive Officer's base salary or annual planned cash compensation, or (iii) a material change in the geographic location at which the Named Executive Officer is required to perform
services for the Company. 
73




 











Table of Contents 
        The amounts payable to or on behalf of each of the Named Executive Officers in each of the above situations is reflected in the following table, assuming that
each individual's employment had terminated and/or a change in control of the Company had occurred on December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2012, Mr. Thulin and Mr. Shin
were eligible to retire (as that term is defined for purposes of 3M's stock plans). Mr. Buckley retired from the Company effective June 1, 2012. 





























 
 


2012 Potential Payments upon Termination or Change in Control Table 
 


Name



 
Triggering Event 
 
Outstanding
Performance
Share
Awards ($)(1) 
 
Unvested
RSUs
($)(2) 
 
Unvested
Options
($)(3) 
 
Life
Insurance
Proceeds
($)(4) 
 
Total
($) 
 






 Inge G. Thulin
 
  Retirement
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 


 


 
  Death
 
 
 6,218,072
 
 
 308,076
 
 
 1,350,283
 
 
 8,900,000
 
 
 16,776,431
 


 


 
  Termination due to disability
 
 
 0
 
 
 308,076
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 308,076
 


 


 
  Resignation for Good Reason/Non-Cause Termination within 18 months following Change in Control
 
 
 2,265,799
 
 
 308,076
 
 
 1,350,283
 
 
 0
 
 
 3,924,158
 


 George W. Buckley
 
  Retirement
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 






 David W. Meline
 
  Death
 
 

2,508,436
 
 

753,478
 
 

382,269
 
 

2,760,883
 
 

6,405,066
 


 


 
  Termination due to disability
 
 
 0
 
 
 753,478
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 753,478
 


 


 
  Termination for other reason
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 


 


 
  Resignation for Good Reason/Non-Cause Termination within 18 months following Change in Control
 
 
 1,025,376
 
 
 753,478
 
 
 382,269
 
 
 0
 
 
 2,161,123
 


 Ivan K. Fong
 
  Death
 
 

926,829
 
 

1,040,384
 
 

181,523
 
 

2,310,000
 
 

4,458,736
 


 
 
  Termination due to disability
 
 
 0
 
 
 1,040,384
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 1,040,384
 


 
 
  Termination for other reason
 
 
 0
 
 
 1,040,384
(5)
 
 181,523
(5)
 
 0
 
 
 1,221,907
 


 
 
  Resignation for Good Reason/Non-Cause Termination within 18 months following Change in Control
 
 
 358,192
 
 
 1,040,384
 
 
 181,523
 
 
 0
 
 
 1,580,099
 






 Hak Cheol Shin
 
  Retirement
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 


 


 
  Death
 
 
 1,651,894
 
 
 567,128
 
 
 612,712
 
 
 2,288,000
 
 
 5,119,734
 


 


 
  Termination due to disability
 
 
 0
 
 
 567,128
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 567,128
 


 


 
  Resignation for Good Reason/Non-Cause Termination within 18 months following Change in Control
 
 
 704,141
 
 
 567,128
 
 
 612,712
 
 
 0
 
 
 1,883,981
 


 Brad T. Sauer
 
  Death
 
 

1,651,894
 
 

314,576
 
 

499,846
 
 

2,093,700
 
 

4,560,016
 


 
 
  Termination due to disability
 
 
 0
 
 
 314,576
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 314,576
 


 
 
  Termination for other reason
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 


 
 
  Resignation for Good Reason/Non-Cause Termination within 18 months following Change in Control
 
 
 704,141
 
 
 314,576
 
 
 499,846
 
 
 0
 
 
 1,518,563
 


 
 




FOOTNOTES TO 2012 POTENTIAL PAYMENTS UPON
TERMINATION OR CHANGE IN CONTROL TABLE 
        (1)   The amounts in this column reflect the value of performance share awards under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive
Plan for which the three-year performance period has not been completed (adjusted to reflect the closing market price of 3M common stock on December 31, 2012), and which would be
paid upon the occurrence of the respective triggering events in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. 
        (2)   The amounts in this column reflect the value of unvested 3M restricted stock units that would vest upon the occurrence of
the respective triggering events in accordance with the provisions of the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Share values are based on the closing market price of 3M common stock on
December 31, 2012 ($92.85). 
74



 
Table of Contents
        (3)   The amounts in this column reflect the spread value on December 31, 2012, of unvested,
in-the-money 3M stock options that will vest upon the occurrence of the respective triggering events in accordance with the provisions of the 2008 Long-Term
Incentive Plan. Spread values are based on the closing market price of 3M common stock on December 31, 2012 ($92.85). 
        (4)   The amounts in this column reflect the life insurance proceeds that would be payable to each individual's beneficiary or
beneficiaries pursuant to the universal life insurance policies obtained for them under the Executive Life Insurance Plan. 
        (5)   Assumes that Mr. Fong's employment was terminated by the Company without cause. These amounts would be zero in the
event that the termination was for cause (the unvested RSUs and stock options would be forfeited). 
 
 
  COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION     
        The members of the Compensation Committee are named in the preceding section. No members of the Compensation Committee were officers or
employees of 3M or any of its subsidiaries during the year, were formerly 3M officers (except that Robert S. Morrison served as interim Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer from
June 30, 2005, to December 6, 2005), or had any relationship otherwise requiring disclosure. 
75



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT     
        The role of the Audit Committee includes assisting the Board of Directors in its oversight of the Company's financial reporting
process. In performing this oversight function, the Audit Committee has:


•Reviewed and discussed the audited consolidated financial statements with management, which has primary responsibility for
the financial statements; 
•Discussed with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), the Company's independent registered public accounting firm, the
matters required to be discussed by the statement on Auditing Standards No. 61, as amended (AICPA, Professional Standards, Vol.1, AU Section 380), as adopted by the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board ("PCAOB") in Rule 3200T; and 
•Received the written disclosures and the letter from PwC required by applicable requirements of the PCAOB regarding PwC's
communications with the audit committee concerning independence, and has discussed with PwC its independence. 

        Based
upon the review and discussions described above, the Committee recommended to the Board of Directors that the audited consolidated financial statements be included in the Company's
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, for filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Submitted
by the Audit Committee 
Herbert
L. Henkel, Chair
Linda G. Alvarado
Michael L. Eskew
W. James Farrell 
 
 
  Audit Committee Policy on Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     
        The Audit Committee is responsible for appointing and overseeing the work of the independent registered public accounting firm
("Independent Accounting Firm"). The Audit Committee has established the following procedures for the pre-approval of all audit and permissible non-audit services provided by
the Independent Accounting Firm. 
        Before
engagement of the Independent Accounting Firm for the next year's audit, the Independent Accounting Firm will submit to the Audit Committee for approval a detailed description of
services it expects to render to the Company during that year for each of the following categories of services: 
        1.     Audit
services include audit work performed in the preparation of consolidated financial statements, as well as work that generally only the Independent Accounting Firm
can reasonably be expected to provide, including comfort letters, statutory audits, attest services, and consultation regarding financial accounting and/or reporting standards. 
        2.     Audit
related services are for assurance and related services that are traditionally performed by the Independent Accounting Firm, including due diligence related to
mergers and acquisitions, employee benefit plan audits, and special procedures required to meet certain regulatory requirements. 
        3.     Tax
services include all services performed by the Independent Accounting Firm's tax personnel except those services specifically related to the audit of the financial
statements, and includes fees in the areas of tax compliance, tax planning, and tax advice. 
        4.     Other
services are those services not captured in the other categories. 
        Before
engagement, the Audit Committee pre-approves these services by category of service. The fees are budgeted and the Audit Committee requires the Independent Accounting
Firm to report actual 
76



 
Table of Contents
fees
versus the budget periodically throughout the year by category of service. During the year, circumstances may arise when it may become necessary to engage the Independent Accounting Firm for
additional services not contemplated in the original pre-approval. In those instances, the Audit Committee requires specific pre-approval before engaging the Independent
Accounting Firm. 
        The
Audit Committee has delegated pre-approval authority to the chair of the Committee. The chair must report, for informational purposes only, any pre-approval
decisions to the Audit Committee at its next scheduled meeting. 
 
 
  FEES OF THE INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     
        The following table represents fees for professional services rendered by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the audit of the
Company's consolidated financial statements for
the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012, and fees billed for other services rendered by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP during those periods (amounts in millions). 
 Audit and Non-Audit Fees ($ in millions)  
















 
 
2011 
 
2012 
 


 Audit Fees:(1)
 
$
12.6
 
$
13.1
 


 Audit Related Fees:(2)
 
 
0.9
 
 
1.3
 


 Tax Fees:(3)
 
 
0.7
 
 
1.0
 


 All Other Fees:(4)
 
 
0.4
 
 
0.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
14.6
 
$
15.5
 




        (1)   Audit fees consisted of audit work and review services, as well as work generally only the independent registered public
accounting firm can reasonably be expected to provide, such as statutory audits, comfort letters, consents, and assistance with and review of documents filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. 
        (2)   Audit related fees consisted principally of employee benefit plan audits, internal control and system audits,
agreed-upon procedures, financial due diligence, and other attest services. 
        (3)   Tax fees consisted principally of tax compliance services. 
        (4)   All other fees consisted of permissible services primarily related to systems. 
77




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBMISSION OF STOCKHOLDER PROPOSALS  FOR NEXT YEAR'S ANNUAL MEETING     
        In order for a stockholder proposal to be considered for inclusion in 3M's Proxy Statement for next year's Annual Meeting, our
Corporate Secretary must receive the proposal by November 27, 2013. Such proposals must be sent via registered, certified, or express mail (or other means that allows the stockholder to
determine when the proposal was received by the Company) to: Gregg M. Larson, Deputy General Counsel and Secretary, 3M Company, 3M Center, Building 220-13E-34, St. Paul,
MN 55144-1000. Such proposals must comply with the Securities and Exchange Commission's regulations regarding the inclusion of stockholder proposals in Company sponsored proxy materials,
such as the stockholder continuing to own a minimum number of shares until the Annual Meeting and appearing in person or through an authorized representative at the meeting to present the proposal. 
        Alternatively,
stockholders intending to present a proposal at next year's Annual Meeting without having it included in the Company's Proxy Statement must comply with the requirements
set forth in the Company's Bylaws, a copy of which is available at www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance. Our Bylaws require, among
other things, that our Corporate Secretary receive written notice from the stockholder no earlier than the close of business on January 14, 2014, and no later than the close of business on
February 13, 2014. The notice must contain the information required by our Bylaws. 
        Proposals
received by the Corporate Secretary after the dates mentioned will not be included in the Proxy Statement or acted upon at next year's Annual Meeting. 
By
Order of the Board of Directors. 



GREGG
M. LARSON 
Deputy General Counsel and Secretary
78



Table of Contents



 ADMISSION TICKET AND PHOTO ID REQUIRED FOR THE ANNUAL MEETING  
Please note that you will need an admission ticket and a valid photo ID to attend the Annual Meeting. For more details, please read "Annual Meeting Admission" on page 1
of the Proxy Statement.












TO VOTE, MARK
  BLOCKS BELOW IN BLUE OR BLACK INK AS FOLLOWS: KEEP THIS PORTION FOR YOUR
  RECORDS DETACH AND RETURN THIS PORTION ONLY THIS PROXY CARD IS VALID ONLY
  WHEN SIGNED AND DATED. Signature (Joint Owners) Date Signature [PLEASE SIGN
  WITHIN BOX] Date VOTE BY INTERNET - www.proxyvote.com Use the Internet to
  transmit your voting instructions and for electronic delivery of information
  up until 10:59 P.M. Central Daylight Time on May 13, 2013*. Have your proxy
  card in hand when you access the Web site and follow the instructions to
  obtain your records and to create an electronic voting instruction form. VOTE
  BY PHONE - 1-800-690-6903 Use any touch-tone telephone to transmit your
  voting instructions up until 10:59 P.M. Central Daylight Time on May 13, 2013*.
  Have your proxy card in hand when you call and then follow the instructions.
  VOTE BY MAIL Mark, sign, and date your proxy card and return it in the
  postage-paid envelope we have provided or return it to 3M Company, c/o
  Broadridge, 51 Mercedes Way, Edgewood, NY 11717, so that it is received by
  May 13, 2013*. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY OF FUTURE PROXY MATERIALS If you would
  like to reduce the costs incurred by 3M Company in mailing proxy materials,
  you can consent to receiving all future proxy statements, proxy cards, and
  annual reports electronically via e-mail or the Internet. To sign up for
  electronic delivery, please follow the instructions above to vote using the
  Internet and, when prompted, indicate that you agree to receive or access
  proxy materials electronically in future years. *Up until 10:59 p.m. Central
  Daylight Time on May 9, 2013, for participants in 3M's Voluntary Investment
  Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan and the 3M Savings Plan. 3M CENTER
  BLDG. 220-9E-02 ST. PAUL, MN 55144-1000 M56203-P34082 3M COMPANY The Board of
  Directors recommends you vote FOR the following proposals 1, 2 and 3: Vote on
  Directors 1. To elect eleven members to the Board of Directors, each for a
  term of one year. For Abstain Against Nominees: ! ! ! 1a. Linda G. Alvarado Abstain
  For Against ! ! ! ! ! ! 1b. Vance D. Coffman 1i. Aulana L. Peters ! ! ! ! ! !
  1c. Michael L. Eskew 1j. Inge G. Thulin ! ! ! ! ! ! 1k. Robert J. Ulrich 1d.
  W. James Farrell ! ! ! ! ! ! 2. To ratify the appointment of
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 3M's independent registered public accounting
  firm. 1e. Herbert L. Henkel ! ! ! ! ! ! 1f. Muhtar Kent 3. Advisory approval
  of executive compensation. ! ! ! The Board of Directors recommends you vote
  AGAINST the following proposals 4 and 5: 1g. Edward M. Liddy ! ! ! ! ! ! 4.
  Stockholder proposal on action by written consent. 1h. Robert S. Morrison ! !
  ! ! 5. Stockholder proposal on prohibiting political spending from corporate
  treasury funds. For address changes and/or comments, please check this box
  and write them on the back where indicated. Please sign exactly as your
  name(s) appear(s) hereon. When signing as attorney, executor, administrator,
  or other fiduciary, please give full title as such. Joint owners should each
  sign personally. All holders must sign. If a corporation or partnership,
  please sign in full corporate or partnership name by authorized officer.
  NOTE: Such other business as may properly come before the meeting or any
  adjournment or postponement thereof. 




 











NOTICE OF 2013
  ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS Tuesday, May 14, 2013, 10:00 a.m. Central
  Daylight Time Important Notice Regarding the Availability of Proxy Materials
  for the Annual Meeting: The Notice and Proxy Statement and Annual Report are
  available at www.proxyvote.com. With your name and control number printed on
  the reverse side, this top half of proxy card will serve as an admission
  ticket. M56204-P34082 3M COMPANY The Board of Directors solicits this proxy
  for use at the Annual Meeting on Tuesday, May 14, 2013. The stockholder(s)
  whose signature(s) appear(s) on the reverse side of this proxy card hereby
  appoint(s) Gregg M. Larson, David W. Meline, and Inge G. Thulin or any of
  them, each with full power of substitution, as proxies, to vote all shares of
  common stock in 3M Company which the stockholder(s) would be entitled to vote
  on all matters which may properly come before the 2013 Annual Meeting of
  Stockholders and any adjournments thereof. THE PROXIES SHALL VOTE SUBJECT TO
  THE DIRECTION INDICATED ON THE REVERSE SIDE OF THIS CARD. THE PROXIES ARE
  AUTHORIZED TO VOTE IN THEIR DISCRETION UPON OTHER BUSINESS AS MAY PROPERLY
  COME BEFORE THE MEETING AND ANY ADJOURNMENTS OR POSTPONEMENTS THEREOF. THE
  PROXIES WILL VOTE AS THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS WHERE A CHOICE IS NOT
  SPECIFIED. FOR PARTICIPANTS IN 3M'S VOLUNTARY INVESTMENT PLAN AND EMPLOYEE
  STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN (VIP), AND THE 3M SAVINGS PLAN: In accordance with the
  terms of the VIP and Savings Plan, shares allocated to the respective
  accounts in these plans on the record date will be voted by the trustee,
  State Street Bank and Trust Company, in accordance with the instructions
  indicated on the reverse side of this card, and in accordance with the
  judgment of the trustee upon other business as may properly come before the
  meeting and any adjournments or postponements thereof. In addition,
  participants in the VIP may instruct State Street (as VIP trustee) how to
  vote a proportionate number of the allocated shares for which no instructions
  are received by following the same instructions. If no instructions are
  provided or if this card is not received on or before May 9, 2013, shares
  held in the respective accounts in the Savings Plan will be voted by the
  trustee as directed by any one of the named proxies designated above. If no
  instructions are provided or if this card is not received on or before May 9,
  2013, shares held in the respective accounts in the VIP will be voted by the
  trustee in the same proportion that the other participants in the VIP direct
  the trustee to vote shares in the VIP accounts. Address Changes/Comments:
  ______________________________________________________________________________
  ________________________________________________________________________________________________________
  (If you noted any Address Changes/Comments above, please mark corresponding
  box on the reverse side.) (Continued, and must be signed and dated on the
  other side) 




 
 






