
DEF 14A
1
a2202430zdef14a.htm
DEF 14A













Table of Contents 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549  
 SCHEDULE 14A  
Proxy Statement Pursuant to Section 14(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 













 
 Filed by the Registrant ý


 
Filed by a Party other than the Registrant o


 

Check the appropriate box:


 
 o
 
Preliminary Proxy Statement


 
 o
 
 Confidential, for Use of the Commission Only (as permitted by Rule 14a-6(e)(2))


 
 ý
 
Definitive Proxy Statement


 
 o
 
Definitive Additional Materials


 
 o
 
Soliciting Material Pursuant to §240.14a-12



















 3M Company




  (Name of Registrant as Specified In Its Charter)


 N/A




  (Name of Person(s) Filing Proxy Statement, if other than the Registrant)


 
 
 
 
 


Payment of Filing Fee (Check the appropriate box):


 ý
 
No fee required.


 o
 
Fee computed on table below per Exchange Act Rules 14a-6(i)(1) and 0-11.



 
 
(1)
 
Title of each class of securities to which transaction applies:
         


 
 
(2)
 
Aggregate number of securities to which transaction applies:
         


 
 
(3)
 
Per unit price or other underlying value of transaction computed pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0-11 (set forth the amount on which the filing fee is calculated and state how it was determined):
         


 
 
(4)
 
Proposed maximum aggregate value of transaction:
         


 
 
(5)
 
Total fee paid:
         


 o
 
Fee paid previously with preliminary materials.


 o
 
Check box if any part of the fee is offset as provided by Exchange Act Rule 0-11(a)(2) and identify the filing for which the offsetting fee was paid previously. Identify the previous filing by registration
statement number, or the Form or Schedule and the date of its filing.



 
 
(1)
 
Amount Previously Paid:
         


 
 
(2)
 
Form, Schedule or Registration Statement No.:
         


 
 
(3)
 
Filing Party:
         


 
 
(4)
 
Date Filed: 
         



 
 

 
 
 Persons who are to respond to the collection of information contained in this form are not required to respond unless the form displays a currently valid OMB control number. 



















Table of Contents 
George W. Buckley Chairman of the Board, President and
Chief Executive Officer 















 
March 23, 2011




Dear
Stockholder: 
        I
am pleased to invite you to attend 3M's Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will be held on Tuesday, May 10, 2011, at 10:00 a.m., Central Daylight Time at the
RiverCentre, 175 West Kellogg Boulevard, St. Paul, Minnesota. 
        Details
regarding admission to the meeting and the business to be conducted are more fully described in the accompanying Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement. I will report on
Company operations and discuss our plans for growth. There will also be time for your questions and comments. 
        The
fine attendance of our stockholders at Annual Meetings over the years has been very helpful in maintaining good communication. I sincerely hope you will be able to join us.  Your attendance cards to the Annual Meeting are
located on the back cover of this Proxy Statement.
        Your
vote is important. Whether or not you plan to attend the Annual Meeting, please vote as soon as possible. You may vote your proxy on the Internet, by telephone, or, if this Proxy
Statement was mailed to you, by completing and mailing the enclosed traditional proxy card. Please review the instructions on the proxy card or the electronic proxy material delivery notice regarding
each of these voting options. 
        Thank
you for your ongoing support of 3M. 
Sincerely,








 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  2011 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS         NOTICE OF 2011 ANNUAL MEETING AND PROXY STATEMENT         TABLE OF CONTENTS     

 














 Notice of 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
 
iii


 Proxy Statement
 

1


 
 Purpose of the Annual Meeting
 

1


 
 Annual Meeting Admission
 

1


 
 Information About the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy
Materials
 

1


 
 Stockholders Entitled to Vote
 

2


 
 Proposals You Are Asked to Vote On and the Board's Voting
Recommendations
 

3


 
 Voting Requirements to Elect Directors and Approve Each of the
Proposals Described in this Proxy Statement
 

4


 
 Voting Methods
 

5


 
 Changing Your Vote
 

6


 
 Counting the Vote
 

6


 
 Confidentiality
 

6


 
 Results of the Vote
 

6


 
 Delivery of Documents to Stockholders Sharing an Address
 

7


 
 List of Stockholders
 

7


 
 Cost of Proxy Solicitation
 

7


 
 Transfer Agent
 

7


 Governance of the Company
 

8


 
 Corporate Governance Guidelines
 

8


 
 Executive Sessions
 

8


 
 Board's Leadership Structure
 

8


 
 Lead Independent Director
 

9


 
 Communication with Directors
 

9


 
 Director Independence
 

9


 
 Director Nomination Process
 

10


 
 Board's Role in Risk Oversight
 

12


 
 3M Business Conduct Policies
 

13


 
 Related Person Transaction Policy and
Procedures
 

14


 
 Policy on Adoption of a Rights Plan
 

14


 Board and Committee Membership
 

15


 
 Audit Committee
 

16


 
 Compensation Committee
 

16


 
 Finance Committee
 

17


 
 Nominating and Governance Committee
 

18


 Director Compensation and Stock Ownership
Guidelines
 

19





i



 
Table of Contents














 Proposals To Be Voted On
 
21


 
 Proposal No. 1 — Election of the Ten Directors Identified in this Proxy
Statement
 

21


 
 Proposal No. 2 — Ratification of the Appointment of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm
 

26


 
 Proposal No. 3 — Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation
 

26


 
 Proposal No. 4 — Advisory Vote on the Frequency of Advisory Votes on Executive
Compensation
 

27


 
 Proposal No. 5 — Stockholder Proposal on Political Contributions
 

27


 Information on Stock Ownership of Directors and Executive
Officers
 

31


 Security Ownership of More Than 5 Percent
Stockholders
 

32


 Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance
 

33


 Executive Compensation
 

33


 
 Compensation Discussion and Analysis
 

33


 
 Compensation Committee Report
 

50


 
 Assessment of Risk Related to Compensation
Programs
 

50


 
 2010 Summary Compensation Table
 

51


 
 2010 All Other Compensation Table
 

52


 
 2010 Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table
 

53


 
 Additional Information Regarding the Employment Agreements of
the Named Executive Officers
 

55


 
 2010 Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End Table
 

57


 
 2010 Option Exercises and Stock Vested Table
 

58


 
 Pension Benefits
 

60


 
 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation
 

62


 
 Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control.
 

63


 
 Generally Available Compensation and Benefit
Plans
 

66


 Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation
 

69


 Audit Committee Report
 

69


 Audit Committee Policy on Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible
Non-Audit Services of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 

69


 Fees of the Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm
 

70


 Requirements for Submission of Stockholder Proposals for Next
Year's Annual Meeting
 

71





ii




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
3M COMPANY   3M Center, St. Paul, Minnesota 55144   
NOTICE OF 2011 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS  














TIME AND DATE
 
10:00 a.m., Central Daylight Time on Tuesday, May 10, 2011


 PLACE
 
RiverCentre
175 West Kellogg Boulevard
St. Paul, Minnesota 55102


 ITEMS OF BUSINESS
 
(1)
 
To elect the ten directors identified in this Proxy Statement, each for a term of one year.


 
 
(2)
 
To ratify the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 3M's independent registered public accounting firm for 2011.


 
 
(3)
 
To hold an advisory vote on executive compensation.


 
 
(4)
 
To hold an advisory vote on the frequency of advisory votes on executive compensation.


 
 
(5)
 
To consider one stockholder proposal, if properly presented at the meeting. See the Table of Contents for a description of the stockholder proposal.


 
 
(6)
 
To transact such other business as may properly come before the Annual Meeting and any adjournment or postponement.


 ADJOURNMENTS AND POSTPONEMENTS
 
Any action on the items of business described above may be considered at the Annual Meeting at the time and on the date specified above or at any time and date to which the Annual Meeting may be properly adjourned or
postponed.


 ANNUAL REPORT
 
Our 2010 Annual Report, which is not part of the proxy soliciting materials, is enclosed if the proxy materials were mailed to you. The Annual Report is accessible on the Internet by visiting www.proxyvote.com,
if you have received the E-Proxy Notice, or previously consented to the electronic delivery of proxy materials.


 RECORD DATE
 
You are entitled to vote if you were a stockholder of record at the close of business on Friday, March 11, 2011.


 MEETING ADMISSION
 
Either an admission ticket or proof of ownership of 3M stock, as well as a form of personal identification, must be presented in order to be admitted to the Annual Meeting. If you are a stockholder of record, your
admission ticket is included on the back cover of this proxy statement. If your shares are held in the name of a bank, broker, or other holder of record, you must bring a brokerage statement or other proof of ownership with you to the Meeting, or you
may request an admission ticket in advance. Please refer to the section entitled "Annual Meeting Admission" on page 1 for further details.


 VOTING
 
For instructions on voting, please refer to the instructions on the E-Proxy Notice you received in the mail or, if you requested or received a hard copy of the Proxy Statement, on your enclosed proxy card.
















 
 
By Order of the Board of Directors,



 
 





 
 
 GREGG M. LARSON
Deputy General Counsel and Secretary




IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING THE AVAILABILITY OF PROXY MATERIALS FOR THE ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS TO BE HELD ON MAY 10, 2011: The Notice of Annual Meeting, Proxy
Statement and the 2010 Annual Report are available at www.proxyvote.com. Enter the 12-digit control number located in the box next to the arrow on the E-Proxy Notice or proxy
card to view these materials.
THIS
PROXY STATEMENT AND PROXY CARD, OR THE E-PROXY NOTICE, ARE BEING DISTRIBUTED ON OR ABOUT MARCH 23, 2011. 
iii




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  PROXY STATEMENT     
        The Board of Directors (the "Board") of 3M Company, a Delaware corporation ("3M" or the "Company") is soliciting proxies for the
Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders. You are receiving a Proxy Statement because you own shares of 3M common stock that entitle you to vote at the meeting. By use of a proxy, you can vote whether
or not you attend the meeting. The Proxy Statement describes the matters we would like you to vote on and provides information on those matters so you can make an informed decision. 
        The
information included in this Proxy Statement relates to proposals to be voted on at the meeting (if properly presented), the voting process, 3M's Board and Board committees, the
compensation of directors and certain executive officers, and other required information. 
 
 
  Purpose of the Annual Meeting     
        The purpose of the Annual Meeting is to elect the directors identified in this Proxy Statement and to conduct the business described in
the Notice of Annual Meeting. 
 
 
  Annual Meeting Admission     
        Only stockholders are invited to attend the meeting. An admission ticket or proof of ownership of 3M stock, along with photo
identification, must be presented in order to be admitted to the Annual Meeting. If you are a stockholder of record, your admission ticket is on the back of this Proxy Statement. If your shares are
held in the name of a bank, broker, or other holder of record, you must bring a brokerage statement or other proof of ownership with you to the Annual Meeting, or obtain an admission ticket in
advance. Tickets are also available on the Internet voting site — www.proxyvote.com. If you do not provide photo identification
or comply with the other procedures outlined above, you will not be admitted to the Annual Meeting. 
        No cameras, recording equipment, electronic devices, large bags, briefcases, or packages will be permitted in the Annual Meeting.
 
 
  Information about the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials     


•Why did I receive the Notice of Internet Availability ("E-Proxy Notice") and not the
printed proxy materials?



3M
is sending the E-Proxy Notice instead of a full printed set of proxy materials to allow stockholders to access our proxy materials in a fast and efficient manner. The
E-Proxy Notice gives you instructions on how to view 3M's proxy materials and vote your proxy online or how to receive a full set of printed materials by mail. 
There
are several advantages to 3M sending an E-Proxy Notice instead of a full set of materials: 

•Increases stockholder value by lowering our printing and mailing costs.   
•Reduces environmental impact — saves trees and reduces fossil fuel consumption.  
•Allows faster notification of how to access materials in an easily searchable format.   



•Why didn't I receive the E-Proxy Notice in the mail?



We
are providing some of our stockholders, including stockholders who have previously requested to receive paper copies of the proxy materials, with paper copies of the proxy materials instead of the
E-Proxy Notice. 
In
addition, we are providing the E-Proxy Notice by e-mail to those stockholders who have previously elected delivery of the proxy materials electronically. Those stockholders
should have 


1



 
Table of Contents



received
an e-mail containing a link to the Web site where those materials are available and a link to the proxy voting Web site.  


•How do I view the proxy materials online?



Go
to www.proxyvote.com and follow the instructions to view the materials. It is necessary to provide the information
printed in the box marked by the arrow located on your E-Proxy Notice. (See example below — the information in the box is an example
only — your number will be different and is unique to you).





•What if I still prefer to receive a paper copy of the proxy materials?



You
can easily request a paper copy at no cost by selecting from one of the three options below. You will need the information on the E-Proxy Notice that is printed in the box marked by
the arrow (see example above — the information in the box is an example only — your number will be different and is unique to
you).  

•By INTERNET at  www.proxyvote.com;
•By TELEPHONE, toll-free at
800-579-1639; or   
•By sending an E-MAIL to  sendmaterial@proxyvote.com; simply enter the
information in the box next to the arrow from your E-Proxy Notice
in the subject line. No other information is necessary.   



•Can I request to receive my materials by e-mail rather than receive an
E-Proxy Notice?



You
may request to receive proxy materials for all future meetings either by e-mail or in paper form by mail. To request future copies by
e-mail, go to www.proxyvote.com or  www.investordelivery.com and follow the electronic delivery enrollment instructions. If you choose to
access future proxy
materials electronically, you will receive an e-mail with instructions containing a link to the Web site where those materials are available and a link to the proxy voting Web site. Your
election to access proxy materials by e-mail will remain in effect until you terminate it. 


        Please note that you MAY NOT USE YOUR E-Proxy Notice to vote your shares; it is NOT a form for voting. If you send the E-Proxy Notice back
your vote will not count.
        For more information about the E-Proxy, please visit:
www.sec.gov/spotlight/proxymatters/e-proxy.shtml.
 
 
  Stockholders Entitled to Vote     
        Each share of our common stock outstanding as of the close of business on March 11, 2011, the record date, is entitled to one
vote at the Annual Meeting on each matter properly brought before the meeting. As of that date, there were approximately 711,805,000 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. 
        Most
3M stockholders hold their shares through a stockbroker, bank, trustee, or other nominee rather than directly in their own name. As summarized below, there are some distinctions
between shares held of record and those owned beneficially: 


•STOCKHOLDER OF RECORD — If your shares are registered directly in your name with 3M's Transfer Agent,
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., you are considered the stockholder of record of those shares and the E-Proxy Notice, or if you requested, these proxy materials are being sent directly to you by
3M. As the stockholder of record, you have the right to grant your voting proxy directly to 3M or to vote in person at the meeting. You may also vote on the Internet or by telephone, as described in
the E-Proxy Notice and below under the heading "Voting Methods." 

2








 











Table of Contents 


•BENEFICIAL OWNER — If your shares are held in a stock brokerage account, by a bank, trustee, or other
nominee, you are considered the beneficial owner of shares held in street name and these proxy materials are being forwarded to you by your broker, trustee, or nominee who is considered the
stockholder of record of those shares. As the beneficial owner, you have the right to direct your broker, trustee, or nominee on how to vote and are also invited to attend the meeting. However, since
you are not the stockholder of record, you may not vote these shares in person at the meeting. Your broker, trustee, or nominee is obligated to provide you with a voting instruction card for you to
use. You may also vote on the Internet or by telephone, as described in the E-Proxy Notice and below under the heading "Voting Methods."   
•If your shares are held in your account in the 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M
Savings Plan, you are considered the beneficial owner of these shares and the trustee of the plans is the stockholder of record. Participants in 3M's Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock
Ownership Plan or the 3M Savings Plan may direct the trustee how to vote the shares allocated to their account by following the voting instructions contained on the proxy card. Participants in 3M's
Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan may also direct the trustee how to vote a proportionate number of allocated shares of common stock for which it has not received direction
by following the same voting instructions. If you fail to direct the trustee how to vote your shares by following these voting instructions, the trustee will vote your shares as described in the
voting instructions. You may also vote on the Internet or by telephone, as described in the E-Proxy Notice and below under the heading "Voting Methods." 

 
 
  Proposals You Are Asked to Vote On and the Board's Voting Recommendations     
        The following proposals are included in this Proxy Statement and are scheduled to be voted on at the meeting. 3M's Board recommends
that you vote your shares as indicated below. 














 


 
 
Proposals:
 
The Board's
Voting Recommendations:


 


1.
 
The election of the ten directors identified in this Proxy Statement.
 
"FOR"
each nominee
to the Board


 


2.
 
The ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 3M's independent registered public accounting firm for 2011.
 
"FOR"


 


3.
 
Advisory vote on executive compensation.
 
"FOR"


 


4.
 
Advisory vote on the frequency of advisory votes on executive compensation.
 
"1 Year"


 


5.
 
Stockholder proposal on political contributions.
 
"AGAINST"


 




        Other
than the proposals described in this Proxy Statement, and the one stockholder proposal not included in the Proxy Statement as described below, the Board is not
aware of any other matters to be presented for a vote at the Annual Meeting. If you grant a proxy by telephone, Internet, or by signing and returning your proxy card, any of the persons appointed by
the Board of Directors as proxy holders — George W. Buckley, Patrick D. Campbell, David W. Meline, and Gregg M. Larson — will have the discretion to vote your
shares on any additional matters properly presented for a vote at the meeting. If any of our nominees is unavailable as a candidate for director, the above-named proxy holders will vote your proxy for
another candidate or candidates as may be nominated by the Board of Directors. 
        After
the deadline for a stockholder proposal to be considered for inclusion in 3M's Proxy Statement for this meeting had passed, we received a written request from Walden Asset
Management, One Beacon Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02108 ("Walden"), seeking, pursuant to our Bylaws, to present a proposal (the "Walden Proposal") from the floor at the meeting, without having it
included in the 
3



 
Table of Contents

Company's
Proxy Statement. Walden's proposal requests the Company's Board of Directors to initiate a review of 3M's role on the Board of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce (the "Chamber"), with respect to
several aspects, including among others, the consistency between the Chamber's policies and the Company's environmental, social and governance policies, and options to distinguish the Company's
positions from those of the Chamber. The Company's Board does not believe that the proposal is in the best interests of the Company or its stockholders. Pursuant to Rule 14a-4(c)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the named proxies will have
discretion with respect to the Walden Proposal and intend to exercise that discretion to vote "AGAINST" such proposal if properly presented at the meeting. 
 
 
  Voting Requirements to Elect Directors and Approve Each of the Proposals Described in this Proxy Statement     
        Quorum — The presence of the holders of a majority of the
outstanding shares of common stock entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, is necessary to constitute a quorum. Abstentions and "broker
non-votes" are counted as present for purposes of determining a quorum. A "broker non-vote" occurs when a bank, broker, or other holder of record holding shares for a
beneficial owner does not vote on a particular proposal because that holder does not have discretionary voting power for that particular item and has not received instructions from the beneficial
owner. 
        Broker Vote — Under New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) Rule 452, brokers are permitted to vote their clients' shares
in "routine" matters (such as ratification of auditors) so long as the beneficial owner of those shares had not provided voting instructions to the broker at least ten days before a stockholder
meeting. Previously, the SEC had considered uncontested director elections to be routine, but the SEC approved amendments to NYSE Rule 452, effective January 1, 2010, to change
uncontested director elections from "routine" to "non-routine." In September 2010, the SEC approved additional amendments to NYSE Rule 452 to provide that executive compensation
matters, including say-on-pay, say-on-frequency of say-on-pay, and say-on golden-parachutes, are
non-routine matters. As a result of these rule changes, brokers are prohibited from voting in director elections and on these executive compensation matters without specific instructions
from beneficial owners. 
        If
you are a beneficial owner (other than as a participant in the 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M Savings Plan), your bank, broker, or other
holder of record is permitted to vote your shares on the ratification of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm for 2011, even if the record holder does
not receive voting instructions from you. 
        Election of Directors — In accordance with 3M's Bylaws, each director is elected by the vote of the majority of votes
cast (which means the number of votes cast "for" a director's election exceeds the number of votes cast "against" that director's election with "abstentions" and "broker non-votes" not
counted as a vote cast either "for" or "against" that director's election) with respect to that director's election at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided
that if, as of the tenth (10th) day preceding the date the Company first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the Company's stockholders, the number of
nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected (a "Contested Election"), the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast (which means that the nominees who receive
the most affirmative votes are elected to serve as directors). 
        For
an election where the majority vote standard applies, the Nominating and Governance Committee has established procedures under which any incumbent director who is not elected shall
offer to tender his or her resignation to the Board. In the event an incumbent director fails to receive a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election, the Nominating
and Governance Committee, or such other committee designated by the Board of Directors, shall make a recommendation to the Board of Directors as to whether to accept or reject the resignation of such
incumbent director, or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors shall act on the 
4



 
Table of Contents

resignation,
taking into account the Committee's recommendation, and publicly disclose (by a press release and filing an appropriate disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission) its
decision regarding the resignation and, if such resignation is rejected, the rationale behind the decision within ninety (90) days following certification of the election results. The
Nominating and Governance Committee in making its recommendation and the Board of Directors in making its decision each may consider any factors and other information that they consider appropriate
and relevant. 
        An
incumbent director who fails to receive a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election (as defined above) and who tenders his or her resignation pursuant
to the procedures described above shall remain active and engaged in Board activities while the Nominating and Governance Committee and the Board decide whether to accept or reject such resignation,
or whether other action should be taken; provided, however, it is expected that such incumbent director shall not participate in any proceedings by the Nominating and Governance Committee or the Board
regarding whether to accept or reject such director's resignation, or whether to take other action with respect to such director. 
        If
the Board of Directors accepts a director's resignation, or if a nominee for director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board of Directors may fill
the resulting vacancy pursuant to the Bylaws. 
        All Other Proposals — The affirmative "FOR" vote of a majority of those shares present in person or represented by
proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the matter is required to approve Proposals No. 2, 3, and 5. With respect to Proposal No. 4, the frequency receiving the greatest number of
votes — "1 Year", "2 Years", or "3 Years" — will be considered the frequency that stockholders prefer. In tabulating the voting result for any particular
proposal, abstentions and, if applicable, broker non-votes are not counted as votes "FOR" or "AGAINST" the proposal. An abstention will, however, be counted as entitled to vote on a
proposal and will, therefore, have the effect of a vote "AGAINST". The stockholder proposal is presented as a request to the Board to take action. 
 
 
  Voting Methods     
        If you hold shares directly as the stockholder of record, you may vote by granting a proxy or vote in person at the Annual Meeting by
requesting a ballot, or, if you hold shares beneficially in street name, by submitting voting instructions to your broker or nominee. If you own shares beneficially as a participant in the 3M
Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M Savings Plan, you may vote by submitting voting instructions to the trustee. In most instances, you will be able to do this over
the Internet, by telephone, or by mail. Even if you plan to attend the Annual Meeting, we recommend that you vote your shares in advance as described below so that your vote will be counted if you
later decide not to attend the Annual Meeting. Please refer to the summary instructions below and those included on your E-Proxy Notice or proxy card or, for shares held in street name,
the voting instruction card included by your broker or nominee. 
        The
Internet and telephone voting procedures are designed to authenticate stockholders by use of a control number and to allow you to confirm that your instructions have been properly
recorded. If you vote by telephone or on the Internet, you do not need to return your proxy card. Telephone and Internet voting for stockholders of record will be available 24 hours a day, up
until 10:59 p.m. (Central Time) on May 9, 2011. Participants in 3M's Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan and the 3M Savings Plan may instruct the trustee how to
vote their shares via the Internet, by telephone, or by signing and returning the proxy card by 10:59 p.m. (Central Time) on May 5, 2011.  


•VOTE BY INTERNET — www.proxyvote.com — If you have
Internet access, you may submit your proxy from any location in the world 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Have your proxy card or E-Proxy Notice when you access the Web site
and follow the instructions to obtain your records and to create an electronic voting instruction form. 

5



 
Table of Contents


•VOTE BY TELEPHONE — 1-800-690-6903 — If you live
in the United States, you may use any touch-tone telephone to vote your proxy toll-free 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Have your proxy card or E-Proxy
Notice in hand when you call and then follow the instructions.   
•VOTE BY MAIL — You may vote by signing your proxy card or, for shares held in street name, the voting
instruction card included by your broker or nominee and mailing it. If you provide specific voting instructions, your shares will be voted as you instruct. If you sign, but do not provide
instructions, your shares will be voted as the Board recommends. Mark, sign, and date your proxy card and return it in the postage-paid envelope provided so that it is received by
May 9, 2011 (by May 5, 2011 for participants in the 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan and the 3M Savings Plan), to 3M Company, c/o Broadridge, 51 Mercedes
Way, Edgewood, NY 11717.   
•VOTE IN PERSON — If you are a stockholder of record, you may grant your proxy to 3M or vote in person
at the Annual Meeting by requesting a ballot at the meeting. 

        All
shares that have been properly voted and not revoked will be voted at the Annual Meeting. 
 
 
  Changing Your Vote     
        You may change your proxy instructions at any time prior to the vote at the Annual Meeting. You may enter a new vote by using the
Internet or the telephone or by mailing a new proxy card or new voting instruction card bearing a later date (which will automatically revoke your earlier voting instructions). For shares held
directly in your name, you may accomplish this by granting a new proxy or by voting in person at the Annual Meeting. For shares held beneficially by you, you may change your vote by submitting new
voting instructions to your broker or nominee. 
 
 
  Counting the Vote     
        In the election of directors, you may vote "FOR" or "AGAINST" one or more of the nominees or you may "ABSTAIN". For Proposals
No. 2, 3, and 5, you may vote "FOR", "AGAINST", or "ABSTAIN", except that if you "ABSTAIN", it has the same effect as a vote "AGAINST". For Proposal No. 4, you may vote for "1 Year", "2
Years", "3 Years", OR "ABSTAIN". If you sign your proxy card or broker voting instruction card with no further instructions, your shares will be voted in accordance with the recommendations of the
Board. Shares held in your account in the 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M Savings Plan will be voted by the trustee as described in "Stockholders Entitled to
Vote" beginning on page 2. 
        Representatives
of Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc. will tabulate the votes and act as the inspectors of election. 
 
 
  Confidentiality     
        The Company's Board of Directors has a policy that all stockholder proxies, ballots, and tabulations that identify stockholders are to
be maintained in confidence. No such document will be available for examination, and the identity and vote of any stockholder will not be disclosed, except as necessary to meet legal requirements and
allow the inspectors of election to certify the results of the stockholder vote. The policy also provides that inspectors of election for stockholder votes must be independent and cannot be employees
of the Company. Occasionally, stockholders provide written comments on their proxy card that may be forwarded to 3M management. 
 
 
  Results of the Vote     
        We will announce preliminary voting results for those items of business properly presented at the meeting and disclose the preliminary
results for those items (or final results if available) in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC within four business days of the Annual Meeting date. A news 
6



 
Table of Contents

release
with voting results will also be available on our Web site at www.3M.com/profile/pressbox/index.jhtml. 
 
 
  Delivery of Documents to Stockholders Sharing an Address     
        Securities and Exchange Commission rules allow us to deliver a single copy of an annual report and proxy statement to any household not
participating in electronic proxy material delivery at which two or more stockholders reside, if we believe the stockholders are members of the same family. This rule benefits both you and the
Company. We believe it eliminates irritating duplicate mailings that stockholders living at the same address receive and it reduces our printing and mailing costs. This rule applies to any annual
reports, proxy statements, proxy statements combined with a prospectus or information statements. Each stockholder will continue to receive a separate proxy card or voting instruction card. 
        Your
household may have received a single set of proxy materials this year. If you prefer to receive your own copy now or in future years, please request a duplicate set by calling
1-800-579-1639, by going to the following Web site: www.proxyvote.com, or by e-mail at
sendmaterial@proxyvote.com, or in writing to 3M Company, c/o Broadridge, 51 Mercedes Way, Edgewood, NY 11717. 
        If
a broker or other nominee holds your shares, you may continue to receive some duplicate mailings. Certain brokers will eliminate duplicate account mailings by allowing stockholders to
consent to such elimination, or through implied consent if a stockholder does not request continuation of duplicate mailings. Since not all brokers and nominees may offer stockholders the opportunity
this year to eliminate duplicate mailings, you may need to contact your broker or nominee directly to discontinue duplicate mailings to your household. 
 
 
  List of Stockholders     
        The names of stockholders of record entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting will be available at the Annual Meeting and for ten days
prior to the meeting for any purpose germane to the meeting, between the hours of 7:45 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. (Central Time), at our principal executive offices at 3M Center, Building
220-13E-34, St. Paul, Minnesota 55144-1000, by contacting the Secretary of the Company. 
 
 
  Cost of Proxy Solicitation     
        3M will pay for the cost of preparing, assembling, printing, mailing, and distributing these proxy materials. You will need to obtain
your own Internet access if you choose to access the proxy materials and/or vote over the Internet. In addition to mailing these proxy materials, the solicitation of proxies or votes may be made in
person, by telephone, or electronic communication by our directors, officers, and employees, who do not receive any additional compensation for these solicitation activities. We have hired Georgeson
Shareholder Communications, Inc. to assist us in the distribution of proxy materials and the solicitation of votes. We will pay Georgeson Shareholder Communications, Inc. a fee of
$20,000 plus expenses for these services. We will also reimburse brokerage houses and other custodians, nominees, and fiduciaries for their reasonable out-of-pocket expenses
for forwarding proxy and solicitation materials to beneficial owners of stock. 
 
 
  Transfer Agent     
        Our Transfer Agent is Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. All communications concerning stockholders of record accounts, including address changes,
name changes, common stock transfer requirements, and similar issues can be handled by contacting Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. at 1-800-401-1952 (U.S.),
651-450-4064 (outside the U.S.), www.wellsfargo.com/shareownerservices, or in writing, P.O. Box 64854, St. Paul, MN
55164-0854. 
7




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  GOVERNANCE OF THE COMPANY     
 
    Corporate Governance Guidelines     
        The Board has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines that, along with the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, charters of the Board
committees, and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, provide the framework for the governance of the Company. The Board's Nominating and Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing and
reviewing the
Guidelines at least annually, and recommending any proposed changes to the Board for approval. The Corporate Governance Guidelines, the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, charters of the Board
committees, and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are available on our Web site at www.3M.com, under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance. 
 
 
  Executive Sessions     
        Independent directors regularly meet in executive sessions without the Chairman and CEO or other members of management present to
review the criteria upon which the performance of the Chairman and CEO is based, to review the performance of the Chairman and CEO against those criteria, to ratify the compensation of the Chairman
and CEO as approved by the Compensation Committee, and to discuss any other relevant matters. 
 
 
  Board's Leadership Structure     
        The Board's current leadership structure is characterized by: 


•a combined Chairman of the Board and CEO;   
•a strong, independent, and highly experienced Lead Director with well-defined responsibilities that support
the Board's oversight responsibilities;   
•a robust Committee structure with oversight of various types of risks; and  
•an engaged and independent Board. 

        The
Board believes that its current leadership structure provides independent board leadership and engagement while deriving the benefit of having our CEO also serve as Chairman of the
Board. As the individual with primary responsibility for managing the Company's day-to-day operations and with in-depth knowledge and understanding of the Company,
he is best positioned to chair regular Board meetings as the directors discuss key business and strategic issues. Coupled with an independent Lead Director, this combined structure provides
independent oversight while avoiding unnecessary confusion regarding the Board's oversight responsibilities and the day-to-day management of business operations. 
        The
Board of Directors believes it is fundamentally wrong to permanently and inflexibly separate or combine the positions of Chairman of
the Board and Chief Executive Officer (CEO). To do so prevents the Board from acting in the stockholders' best interests when selecting future Board leadership. The Board rejected permanently
separating or combining the positions of Chairman and CEO in its Corporate Governance Guidelines, which are reviewed at least annually and available on our Web site at
www.3M.com, under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance. Instead, the Board adopted an approach that allows it, in representing the stockholders'
best interests, to decide who should serve as Chairman or CEO, or both, under present or anticipated future circumstances. 
        The
Board believes that the Company's corporate governance measures ensure that strong, independent directors continue to effectively oversee the Company's management and key issues
related to executive compensation, CEO evaluation and succession planning, strategy, risk, and integrity. The Board has also designated one of its members to serve as Lead Director, with 
8



 
Table of Contents

responsibilities
(described in the next section) that are similar to those typically performed by a separate chairman. 
        The
Board believes that combining the roles of CEO and Chairman contributes to an efficient and effective Board. The independent directors recruited the current Chairman and CEO from
outside 3M to be its leader in a time of changing and challenging global economic conditions. The Board believes that to drive change and continuous improvement within the Company, tempered by respect
for 3M's traditions and values, the CEO must have maximum authority to be effective. The CEO is primarily responsible for effectively leading significant change, improving operational efficiency,
driving growth, managing the Company's day-to-day business, managing the various risks facing the Company, and reinforcing the expectation for all employees of continuing to
build on 3M's century-old tradition of uncompromising honesty and integrity. The Board currently believes the CEO is best able to chair regular Board
meetings and, with his in-depth knowledge and understanding of the Company, bring key business issues and stakeholder interests to the Board's attention. 
 
 
  Lead Independent Director     
        The 3M Board of Directors has designated one of its members to serve as a Lead Director, with responsibilities that are similar to
those typically performed by an independent chairman ("Lead Director"). Dr. Vance Coffman currently serves as Lead Director. Dr. Coffman is a highly experienced director, currently
serving on the boards of Amgen, Inc. and Deere & Company, and former Chairman and CEO of Lockheed Martin Corporation. His responsibilities include: 


•presiding at all meetings of the Board at which the Chairman is not present, including executive sessions of the
independent directors;   
•acting as a key liaison between the Chairman/CEO and the independent directors;   
•assisting the Chairman/CEO in setting the Board agenda and frequency of meetings;   
•having the authority to call meetings of the independent directors;   
•communicating Board member feedback to the Chairman/CEO (except that the chair of the Compensation Committee leads the
discussion of the Chairman/CEO's performance and communicates the Board's evaluation of that performance to the Chairman/CEO); and  
•performing such other duties as requested by the Board. 

 
 
  Communication with Directors     
        The Board of Directors has adopted the following process for stockholders and other interested parties to send communications to
members of the Board. Stockholders and other interested parties may communicate with the Lead Director, the chairs of the Audit, Compensation, Finance, and Nominating and Governance Committees of the
Board, or with any of our other independent directors, or all of them as a group, by sending a letter to the following address: Corporate Secretary, 3M Company, 3M Center, Building
220-13E-34, St. Paul, MN 55144-1000. 
 
 
  Director Independence     
        The Board of Directors has adopted a formal set of Director Independence Guidelines with respect to the determination of director
independence, the full text of which is available on our Web site at www.3M.com, under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance. In accordance with
these Guidelines, a director or nominee for director must be determined to have no material relationship with the Company other than as a director. The Guidelines specify the criteria by which the
independence of our directors will be determined, including strict guidelines for directors and their immediate families with respect to past employment or affiliation with the Company or its
independent registered public accounting firm. 
9



 
Table of Contents

The
Guidelines also prohibit Audit Committee members from having any direct or indirect financial relationship with the Company, and restrict both commercial and not-for-profit
relationships of all directors with the Company. Directors may not be given personal loans or extensions of credit by the Company, and all directors are required to deal at arm's length with the
Company and its subsidiaries, and to disclose any circumstance that might be perceived as a conflict of interest. 
        In
accordance with these Guidelines, the Board undertook its annual review of director independence. During this review, the Board considered transactions and relationships between
each director, or any member of his or her immediate family and the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates in each of the most recent three completed fiscal years. The Board also considered
whether there were any transactions or relationships between directors or any member of a director's immediate family (or any entity of which a director or an immediate family member is an executive
officer, general partner, or significant equity holder). The Board considered that in the ordinary course of business, transactions may occur between the Company and its subsidiaries and companies at
which some of our directors are or have been officers. In particular, with respect to each of the most recent three completed fiscal years, the Board evaluated for each of the directors, Herbert L.
Henkel, Edward M. Liddy, and Robert J. Ulrich, the annual amount of sales to 3M by the company where he serves (or served) as an executive officer, and purchases by that company from 3M, and
determined that the amount of sales and purchases in each fiscal year was below one percent of the annual revenues of each of those companies, the threshold set forth in the Director Independence
Guidelines. The Board also considered charitable contributions to not-for-profit organizations with which our directors or immediate family members are affiliated, none of
which approached the threshold set forth in our Director Independence Guidelines. 
        As
a result of this review, the Board affirmatively determined that the following directors are independent under these Guidelines: Linda G. Alvarado, Vance D. Coffman, Michael L. Eskew,
W. James Farrell, Herbert L. Henkel, Edward M. Liddy, Robert S. Morrison, Aulana L. Peters, and Robert J. Ulrich. The Board has also determined that no members of the Audit Committee received any
compensation from the Company other than directors' fees. George W. Buckley is considered to not be independent because of his employment as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company. 
 
 
  Director Nomination Process     
 Role of the Nominating and Governance Committee  
        The Nominating and Governance Committee (the "Committee") identifies individuals that the Committee believes are qualified to become
Board members in accordance with the Board Membership Criteria set forth below, and recommends selected individuals to the Board for nomination to stand for election at the next meeting of
stockholders of the Company in which directors will be elected. In the event there is a vacancy on the Board between meetings of stockholders, the Committee seeks to identify individuals that the
Committee believes are qualified to become Board members in accordance with the Board Membership Criteria set forth below, and may recommend one or more of such individuals for appointment to the
Board. 
 Nominees Proposed by Stockholders for Consideration by the Committee  
        The Committee has a policy to consider properly submitted stockholder nominees for candidates for membership on the Board of Directors.
Stockholders proposing individuals for consideration by the Committee must include at least the following information about the proposed nominee: the proposed nominee's name, age, business or
residence address, principal occupation or employment, and whether such person has given written consent to being named in the Proxy Statement as a nominee 
10



 
Table of Contents

and
to serving as a director if elected. Stockholders should send the required information about the nominee to: 

Corporate
Secretary
3M Company
3M Center
Building 220-13E-34
St. Paul, MN 55144-1000. 

        In
order for an individual proposed by a stockholder to be considered by the Committee for recommendation as a Board nominee for the 2012 Annual Meeting, the Corporate Secretary must
receive the proposal no later than 5:00 p.m. (Central Time) on November 24, 2011. Such proposals must be sent via registered, certified, or express mail (or other means that allows the
stockholder to determine when the proposal was received by the Company). The Corporate Secretary will send properly submitted stockholder proposed nominations to the Committee Chair for consideration
at a future Committee meeting. Individuals proposed by stockholders in accordance with these procedures will receive the same consideration that individuals identified to the Committee through other
means receive. 
 Stockholder Nominations  
        In addition, 3M's Bylaws permit stockholders to nominate directors at an Annual Meeting of stockholders or at a special meeting at
which directors are to be elected in accordance with the notice of meeting. Stockholders intending to nominate a person for election as a director must comply with the requirements set forth in the
Company's Bylaws. With respect to nominations to be acted upon at our 2012 Annual Meeting, our Bylaws would require, among other things, that the Corporate Secretary receive written notice from the
record stockholder no earlier than January 11, 2012, and no later than February 10, 2012. The notice must contain the information required by the Bylaws, a copy of which is available on
our Web site at www.3M.com, under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance. Nominations received after February 10, 2012, will not be acted upon
at the 2012 Annual Meeting. 
 Board Membership Criteria  
        The Committee periodically reviews with the Board the requisite skills and characteristics of its members. 3M's Corporate Governance
Guidelines contain Board Membership Criteria that apply to nominees for a position on 3M's Board. The Committee periodically reviews with the Board the appropriate skills and characteristics required
of Board members given the current Board composition. It is the intent of the Board that the Board, itself, will be a high performance organization creating competitive advantage for the Company. To
perform as such, the Board will be comprised of individuals who have distinguished records of leadership and success in their arena of activity and who will make substantial contributions to Board
operations and effectively represent the interests of all stockholders. The Committee's and the Board's assessment of Board candidates includes, but is not limited to, consideration
of: 


(i)Roles
and contributions valuable to the business community;
(ii)Personal
qualities of leadership, character, judgment, and whether the candidate possesses and maintains throughout service on the Board a reputation in
the community at large of integrity, trust, respect, competence, and adherence to the highest ethical standards;
(iii)Relevant
knowledge and diversity of background and experience in such things as business, manufacturing, technology, finance and accounting, marketing,
international business, government, and the like; and 

11



 
Table of Contents


(iv)Whether
the candidate is free of conflicts and has the time required for preparation, participation, and attendance at all meetings. 

        In
addition to these minimum requirements, the Committee will also evaluate whether the nominee's skills are complementary to the existing Board members' skills, the Board's needs for
particular expertise in fields such as business, manufacturing, technology, finance and accounting, marketing, international business, government, or other areas of expertise, and assess the nominee's
impact on Board dynamics and effectiveness. 
 Diversity  
        The Board of Directors values diversity as a factor in selecting nominees to serve on the Board, and believes that the diversity which
exists in its composition provides significant benefit to the Board and the Company. Although there is no specific policy on diversity, the Committee considers the Board Membership Criteria in
selecting nominees for directors, including "diversity of background." Such considerations may include gender, race, national origin, functional background, executive or professional experience, and
international experience. 
 Identification, Evaluation, and Selection of Nominees  
        The Committee periodically reviews the appropriate size and composition of the Board and anticipates future vacancies and needs of the
Board. In the event the Committee recommends an increase in the size of the Board or a vacancy occurs, the Committee
considers qualified nominees from several sources, including current Board members and nominees recommended by stockholders and other persons. 
        The
Committee may from time to time retain a director search firm to help the Committee identify qualified director nominees for consideration by the Committee. The Committee retained
SpencerStuart in 2010 to help identify future board candidates. 
        The
Committee evaluates qualified director nominees at regular or special Committee meetings against the Board Membership Criteria described above then in effect and reviews qualified
director nominees with the Board. The Committee and the Chairman of the Board interview candidates that meet the Board Membership Criteria and the Committee selects nominees that best suit the Board's
current needs and recommends one or more of such individuals for election to the Board. 
 
 
  Board's Role in Risk Oversight     
        The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee through its charter the primary responsibility for the oversight of risks facing the
Company. The charter provides that the Audit Committee shall "discuss policies and procedures with respect to risk assessment and risk management, the Company's major risk exposures and the steps
management has taken to monitor and mitigate such exposures." 
        The
Vice President and General Auditor, Corporate Auditing ("Auditor"), whose appointment and performance is reviewed and evaluated by the Audit Committee and who has direct access to
the Audit Committee, is responsible for leading the formal risk assessment and management process within the Company. The Auditor, through consultation with the Company's senior management,
periodically assesses the major risks facing the Company and works with those executives responsible for managing each specific risk. The Auditor periodically reviews with the Audit Committee the
major risks facing the Company and the steps management has taken to monitor and mitigate those risks. The Auditor's risk management report, which is provided in advance of the meeting, is reviewed
with the entire Board by either the Chair of the Audit Committee or the Auditor. The executive responsible for managing a particular risk may also report to the full Board on how the risk is being
managed and mitigated. 
12



 
Table of Contents
        While
the Board's primary oversight of risk is with the Audit Committee, the Board has delegated to other committees the oversight of risks within their areas of responsibility and
expertise. For example, the Compensation Committee oversees the risks associated with the Company's compensation practices, including an annual review of the Company's risk assessment of its
compensation policies and practices for its employees. The Finance Committee oversees risks associated with the Company's capital structure, its credit ratings and its cost of capital,
long-term benefit obligations, and the Company's use of or investment in financial products, including derivatives used to manage risk related to foreign currencies, commodities, and
interest rates. The Nominating and Governance Committee oversees the risks associated with the Company's overall governance and its succession planning process to understand that the Company has a
slate of future, qualified candidates for key management positions. 
        The
Board believes that its oversight of risks, primarily through delegation to the Audit Committee, but also through delegation to other committees to oversee specific risks within
their areas of responsibility and expertise, and the sharing of information with the full Board, is appropriate for a diversified technology and manufacturing company like 3M. The chair of each
committee that oversees risk provides a summary of the matters discussed with the committee to the full Board following each committee meeting. The minutes of each committee meeting are also provided
to all Board members. The Board also believes its oversight of risk is enhanced by its current leadership structure (discussed above) because the CEO, who is ultimately responsible for the Company's
management of risk, also chairs regular Board meetings, and with his in-depth knowledge and understanding of the Company, is best able to bring key business issues and risks to the Board's
attention. 
 
 
  3M Business Conduct Policies     
        More than a century of operating with honesty and integrity has earned 3M trust from our customers, credibility with our communities,
and dedication from our employees. All of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Accounting Officer, are required to abide by 3M's business conduct
policies to ensure that our business is conducted in a consistently legal and ethical manner. These policies form the foundation of a comprehensive process that includes compliance with corporate
policies and procedures and a companywide focus on uncompromising honesty and integrity in every aspect of our operations. Our business conduct policies cover many topics, including antitrust and
competition law, conflicts of interest, financial reporting, protection of confidential information, and compliance with all laws and regulations applicable to the conduct of our business. 
        Employees
are required to report any conduct that they believe in good faith to be an actual or apparent violation of the business conduct policies. The Audit Committee has adopted
procedures to receive, retain, and treat complaints received regarding accounting, internal accounting controls, or auditing matters, and to allow for the confidential and anonymous submission by
employees or others of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters. Information on how to
submit any such communications can be found on 3M's Web site at http://www.3m.com/busconducttrain/. 
        The
Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for directors of the Company. This Code incorporates long-standing principles of conduct the Company
and the Board follow to ensure the Company's business and the activities of the Board are conducted with integrity, adherence to the highest ethical standards, and in compliance with the law. 
        The
Company's Business Conduct Policies for employees and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors are available on our Web site at www.3M.com
under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance. 
13



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Related Person Transaction Policy and Procedures     
        The Board of Directors has adopted a written Related Person Transaction Policy which is administered by the Nominating and Governance
Committee. This Policy applies to any transaction or series of transactions in which the Company or a subsidiary is a participant, the amount involved exceeds $120,000, and a Related Person (as that
term is defined in the Policy) has a direct or indirect material interest. Under the Policy, Company management will determine whether a transaction meets the requirements of an Interested Transaction
(as that term is defined in the Policy) requiring review by the Committee. Transactions that fall within this definition will be referred to the Committee for approval, ratification, or other action.
Based on its consideration of all of the relevant facts and circumstances, the Committee will decide whether or not to approve such transaction and will approve only those transactions that are in the
best interests of the Company. In the course of its review and approval or ratification of a transaction, the Committee shall consider: 


1.the
nature of the Related Person's interest in the transaction;
2.the
material terms of the transaction, including whether the transaction is on terms no less favorable than terms generally available to an unaffiliated
third party under the same or similar circumstances;
3.the
significance of the transaction to the Related Person;
4.the
significance of the transaction to the Company;
5.whether
the transaction would impair the judgment of a director or executive officer to act in the best interest of the Company; and
6.any
other matters the Committee deems appropriate. 

        Any
Committee member who is a Related Person with respect to a transaction under review may not participate in the deliberations or vote respecting such approval or ratification;
provided, however, that such director may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Committee which considers the transaction. 
 
 
  Policy on Adoption of a Rights Plan     
        In 2002 and 2003, a 3M stockholder submitted a shareholder proposal to 3M regarding the approval process for adopting a stockholders'
rights plan (also known as a "poison pill"). 3M does not have a rights plan and is not currently considering adopting one. The Board continues to believe, however, that there may be circumstances
under which adoption of a rights plan would be necessary to give the Board the negotiating power and leverage to obtain the best result for 3M stockholders in the context of a takeover effort. 
        Following
consideration of the favorable vote the stockholder proposal received and in light of this belief, the Board has adopted and reaffirmed a statement of policy on this topic. The
Board's policy is that it will only adopt a rights plan if either (1) stockholders have approved adoption of the rights plan or (2) the Board in its exercise of its fiduciary
responsibilities, including a majority of the independent members of the Board, makes a determination that, under the circumstances existing at the time, it is in the best interests of 3M's
stockholders to adopt a rights plan without the delay in adoption that would come from the time reasonably anticipated to seek stockholder approval. 
        The
Board has directed the Nominating and Governance Committee to review this policy statement on an annual basis and to report to the Board on any recommendations it may have concerning
the policy. The terms of the policy, as in effect, are included in 3M's published Corporate Governance Guidelines and its Proxy Statement. 
14




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP     
        The Board currently has ten directors and the following four Committees: Audit, Compensation, Finance, and Nominating and Governance.
The membership during 2010 and the function of each Committee are described below. 
        During
2010, the Board of Directors held six regularly scheduled meetings. Overall attendance at Board and committee meetings was 97 percent. Seven directors attended
100 percent and three directors attended 94, 89, and 86 percent, respectively, of the regularly scheduled meetings of the Board and Board committees on which they served in 2010. 
        The
Company has a long-standing policy that directors are expected to attend the Annual Meeting of Stockholders unless extenuating circumstances prevent them from attending.
All directors attended last year's Annual Meeting of Stockholders. 
        The
Board and each Committee conducted an evaluation of their performance in 2010. 


















 


Name of Non-Employee Director
 
Audit
 
Compensation
 
Finance
 
Nominating
and
Governance


 


 



 Linda G. Alvarado
 
   X   
 
 
 
   X   
 
 


 


 Vance D. Coffman
 
 
 
   X *
 
 
 
   X   


 


 



 Michael L. Eskew
 
   X   
 
 
 
   X *
 
 


 


 W. James Farrell
 
   X   
 
 
 
   X   
 
 


 


 



 Herbert L. Henkel
 
   X *
 
 
 
 
 
   X   


 


 Edward M. Liddy
 
 
 
   X   
 
 
 
   X   


 


 



 Robert S. Morrison
 
 
 
   X   
 
 
 
   X *


 


 Aulana L. Peters
 
 
 
   X   
 
   X   
 
 


 


 



 Robert J. Ulrich
 
 
 
   X   
 
 
 
   X   


 




X =
Committee Member; * = Chair 
15



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Audit Committee     
        In 2010, the Audit Committee met nine times. The Committee assists the Board in its oversight of the integrity of the Company's
financial statements, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the qualifications, independence, and performance of the Company's independent registered public accounting firm (the
"Independent Accounting Firm"), the performance of the Company's internal auditing department, and furnishes a report for inclusion in the Company's Proxy Statement. In addition, the
Committee: 


•Reviews the Company's annual audited and quarterly consolidated financial statements;   
•Reviews the Company's financial reporting process and disclosure and internal controls and procedures, including major
issues regarding accounting principles and financial statement presentation, and critical accounting policies to be used in the consolidated financial statements;   
•Reviews and discusses with management and the Independent Accounting Firm the Company's internal controls report and the
Independent Accounting Firm's attestation of the Company's internal controls;   
•By delegation to the chair, reviews earnings press releases prior to issuance;   
•Appoints, oversees, and approves compensation of the Independent Accounting Firm;   
•Reviews with the Independent Accounting Firm the scope of the annual audit, including fees and staffing, and approves all
audit and permissible non-audit services provided by the Independent Accounting Firm;   
•Reviews findings and recommendations of the Independent Accounting Firm and management's response to the recommendations
of the Independent Accounting Firm;   
•Discusses policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management, the Company's major risk exposures, and the steps
management has taken to monitor and mitigate such exposures; and   
•Periodically obtain reports from the Company's Chief Compliance Officer, who has direct reporting obligations to the
Committee, on compliance, and at least annually, on the implementation and effectiveness of the Company's compliance and ethics program. 

        The
Board of Directors has determined that all of the Audit Committee members are "independent," "financially literate," and have "accounting or related financial management expertise"
under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The Board has also determined that all of the Audit Committee members — Herbert L. Henkel (chair), Linda G. Alvarado, Michael L.
Eskew, and W. James Farrell — are "audit committee financial experts" as that term is defined by applicable SEC regulations. The charter of the Audit Committee is available at
www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — Committee Charters. 
 
 
  Compensation Committee     
        In 2010, the Compensation Committee met seven times. The Committee reviews the Company's compensation practices and policies, annually
reviews and approves (subject to ratification by the independent directors of the Board) the compensation for the CEO, annually reviews and approves the compensation for the other senior executives,
evaluates CEO performance, reviews and discusses with management of the Company the Compensation Discussion and Analysis prepared in accordance with 
16



 
Table of Contents

the
SEC's disclosure rules for executive compensation, and furnishes a report for inclusion in the Company's Proxy Statement. In addition, the Committee: 


•Reviews disclosures in the Company's Proxy Statement regarding advisory votes on executive compensation and the frequency
of such votes;   
•Approves the adoption, amendment, and termination of incentive compensation and deferred compensation programs for
employees of the Company;   
•Approves, subject to ratification by the independent directors of the Board, employment agreements and severance
arrangements for the CEO, as appropriate;   
•Approves employment agreements and severance arrangements for the senior executives of the Company (other than the CEO),
as appropriate;   
•Interprets and supervises the administration of the Company's stock and long-term incentive compensation
programs, and determines the employees who receive awards and the size of their awards under such programs;   
•Reviews and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning the design of the pension and other postretirement
benefit plans that have a material financial impact upon the Company;   
•Annually reviews a risk assessment of the Company's compensation policies and practices for its employees; and  
•Periodically reviews human resource issues relating to the Company's policies and practices with respect to workforce
diversity and equal employment opportunities. 

        The
Board of Directors has determined that all Compensation Committee members are "independent" under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The Board has also determined that
each Compensation Committee member qualifies as a "Non-Employee Director" under Rule 16b-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that each member (except Robert S.
Morrison due to his service in 2005 as interim CEO), qualifies as an "outside director" under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. As a result, Mr. Morrison may participate in
the discussion, but cannot vote on the Committee's decisions involving performance-based compensation. The charter of the Compensation Committee is available at www.3M.com
under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — Committee Charters. 
 
 
  Finance Committee     
        In 2010, the Finance Committee met five times. The Committee assists the Board with its oversight of the Company's capital structure,
financing, investment, and other financial matters of importance to the Company. In addition, the Committee: 


•Reviews and recommends for approval by the Board the dividend policy and the declaration of dividends or other forms of
distributions on the Company's stock, such as stock splits in the form of a stock dividend;   
•Reviews and recommends for approval by the Board the repurchase of the Company's stock;   
•Reviews and recommends for approval by the Board the Company's short- and long-term borrowings;  
•Reviews and recommends for approval by the Board the registration and issuance of the Company's debt or equity securities,
except in the case of the issuance of debt or equity securities in connection with a merger or acquisition transaction which is presented to the Board; 

17



 
Table of Contents


•Periodically reviews the Company's ratings from credit rating agencies;   
•Reviews and recommends for approval by the Board an annual capital expenditure budget and revisions to that budget;  
•Reviews and recommends for approval by the Board capital expenditures in excess of $75,000,000;  
•Reviews and evaluates any risks associated with the Company's use of or investment in financial products, including
derivatives used to manage risk related to foreign currencies, commodity prices, and interest rates;   
•Periodically reviews the Company's insurance coverage; and   
•Periodically reviews the funding of the Company's pension and other benefit plans. 

        The
Board of Directors has determined that all Finance Committee members are "independent" under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The charter of the Finance Committee is
available at www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — Committee Charters. 
 
 
  Nominating and Governance Committee     
        In 2010, the Nominating and Governance Committee met five times. The Committee establishes Board membership criteria, assists the Board
by identifying individuals qualified to become Board members, recommends to the Board matters of corporate governance,
facilitates the annual review of the performance of the Board and its Committees, and periodically reviews CEO and management succession plans. In addition, the Committee: 


•Selects and recommends candidates to the Board of Directors to be submitted for election at the Annual Meeting and
candidates to fill any vacancies on the Board, including stockholder nominees for director (submitted in accordance with the Company's Bylaws). The Committee considers all candidates in light of the
Board membership criteria adopted by the Board of Directors;   
•Reviews and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning the composition and size of the Board and its
Committees, Board membership criteria, frequency of meetings, and recommends to the Board changes in compensation for nonemployee directors;   
•Reviews the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines at least annually, and recommends any proposed changes to the Board
for approval;   
•Develops and recommends to the Board standards to be applied in making determinations on the types of relationships that
constitute material relationships between the Company and a director for purposes of determining director independence;   
•Reviews and approves or ratifies any transaction between the Company and any related person, which is required to be
disclosed under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission;   
•Develops and recommends to the Board for its approval an annual self-assessment process of the Board and its
Committees and oversees the process;   
•Reviews periodically with the Chairman/CEO succession plans relating to positions held by elected corporate officers, and
makes recommendations to the Board with respect to the selection of individuals to occupy these positions; and   
•Periodically reviews the corporate contribution program and the activities of the 3M Foundation. 

        The
Board of Directors has determined that all Nominating and Governance Committee members are "independent" under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The charter of the
Nominating and Governance Committee is available at www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — Committee Charters. 
18




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  DIRECTOR COMPENSATION AND STOCK OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES     
        The Nominating and Governance Committee periodically receives reports on the status of Board compensation in relation to other large
U.S. companies and is responsible for recommending to the Board changes in compensation for nonemployee directors. In developing its recommendations, the Committee is guided by the following goals:
compensation should fairly pay directors for work required in a company of 3M's size and scope, a significant portion of the total compensation should be paid in common stock to align directors'
interests with the long-term interests of stockholders, and the structure of the compensation should be simple and transparent. Periodically, at the request of the Committee, Frederic W.
Cook & Co., Inc. conducts a survey of director compensation at other large U.S. companies and provides expert advisory support to the Committee on the compensation of nonemployee
directors. Neither the Company nor the Nominating and Governance Committee has any arrangement with any other compensation consultant who has a role in determining or recommending the amount or form
of
director compensation. Nonemployee directors' compensation includes the following compensation elements: 
        Annual Compensation — In May 2010, the Nominating and Governance Committee considered a board compensation study
prepared by Frederic W. Cook & Co., Inc. As a result of that study, the Committee recommended and the Board approved an increase of $20,000 in the annual compensation for
nonemployee directors from $205,000 to $225,000 effective January 1, 2010. Approximately 47 percent of the annual compensation (or $105,000) is payable in cash in four quarterly
installments and approximately 53 percent of the annual compensation (or $120,000) is payable in common stock after the Annual Meeting. In addition, the chair of a Board committee received an
additional annual fee of $15,000. There are no meeting fees. In lieu of the cash fees, a director may elect to receive common stock of the Company. Each nonemployee director may voluntarily defer all
or part of their annual cash fees or stock award until they cease to be members of the Board. 

        Deferred Stock — For directors who have made an election to defer their annual stock award or annual cash fees into a
common stock equivalents account ("Deferred Stock"), the Company shall credit their account with a number of 3M common stock equivalents (including fractional share equivalents) equal to the number of
actual shares of 3M common stock which could have been purchased with such deferred amounts on the first day of the calendar quarter using the closing price of 3M common stock on the New York Stock
Exchange on the last business day immediately preceding such date. 3M common stock equivalents having a value equal to dividends paid on 3M common stock shall be credited to such an account on each
dividend payment date. The share equivalents shall be determined by using the closing price of 3M common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the sixth business day preceding the dividend record
date. The Deferred Stock is fully vested upon grant but does not have voting rights. Appropriate adjustments shall be made to the accounts for stock splits, stock dividends, merger, consolidation,
payment of dividends in other than cash, and similar circumstances affecting 3M common stock. The Deferred Stock will be distributed in 3M common stock to nonemployee directors beginning on
January 1 of the year following the year in which they leave the Board in a lump sum or up to ten annual installments pursuant to their deferral elections. 

        All Other Compensation — The column below showing "All Other Compensation" includes the incremental cost of
complimentary products and matching gifts. The nonemployee directors are eligible to participate in the matching gift program on the same terms as 3M employees. Under this program, the 3M Foundation
will match up to a total of $10,000 a year in contributions by the director to eligible institutions of higher education. Each of these components is described in more detail below. 
19



 
Table of Contents
        The
total 2010 compensation of our nonemployee directors is shown in the following table: 























 
 


Nonemployee Directors
 
Fees Earned
Or Paid in
Cash ($)(1)
 
Stock
Awards ($)(2)
 
All Other
Compensation
($)(3)
 
Total
($)
 


 
 


 



 Linda G. Alvarado
 
 
105,000
 
 
120,000
 
 
936
 
 
225,936
 


 
 


 Vance D. Coffman*
 
 
120,000
 
 
120,000
 
 
995
 
 
240,995
 


 
 


 



 Michael L. Eskew*
 
 
120,000
 
 
120,000
 
 
128
 
 
240,128
 


 
 


 W. James Farrell
 
 
105,000
 
 
120,000
 
 
10,012
 
 
235,012
 


 
 


 



 Herbert L. Henkel*
 
 
120,000
 
 
120,000
 
 
317
 
 
240,317
 


 
 


 Edward M. Liddy
 
 
105,000
 
 
120,000
 
 
234
 
 
225,234
 


 
 


 



 Robert S. Morrison*
 
 
120,000
 
 
120,000
 
 
10,861
 
 
250,861
 


 
 


 Aulana L. Peters
 
 
105,000
 
 
120,000
 
 
10,401
 
 
235,401
 


 
 


 



 Robert J. Ulrich
 
 
105,000
 
 
120,000
 
 
—
 
 
225,000
 


 
 






*Committee
Chair
(1)This
column reports the amount of all fees earned or paid in cash for services as a director.
(2)This
column represents the grant date fair value of the stock awards made in 2010, computed in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board
Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, Compensation — Stock Compensation. The Company does not grant stock options to nonemployee directors except that Robert S. Morrison has
92,632 fully-vested stock options outstanding, which were previously granted to him as interim Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company from June 30 to
December 6, 2005. Since all stock awards vest on the grant date, there are no unvested stock awards outstanding at year end.
(3)This
column includes participation in the matching gift program with W. James Farrell, Robert S. Morrison, and Aulana L. Peters
participating at the $10,000 level. This column also includes the incremental cost of complimentary products. 

        Expenses.    Nonemployee directors are reimbursed for their expenses in connection with attending Board meetings. Nonemployee directors may
use the
Company aircraft for travel to and from 3M Board meetings. 
         Stock Ownership Guidelines.    The Board requires that each director retain the stock portion (currently valued at $120,000) of the annual
compensation
issued on or after October 1, 2007, until the director leaves the Board. Information regarding accumulated stock and deferred stock units is set forth in the section entitled "Information on
Stock Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers." 
20




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
 PROPOSALS TO BE VOTED ON     PROPOSAL NO. 1     ELECTION OF THE TEN DIRECTORS IDENTIFIED IN THIS PROXY STATEMENT     
        The Board of Directors currently has ten members. At the 2011 Annual Meeting, each of the directors is standing for reelection to hold
office until the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. We expect each nominee for election as a director to be able to serve if elected. If any nominee is not able to serve, proxies will be voted in
favor of the remainder of those nominated and may be voted for substitute nominees, unless the Board chooses to reduce the number of directors serving on the Board. Each nominee elected as a director
will continue in office until his or her successor has been elected and qualified, or until his or her earlier death, resignation, or retirement. 
        The
Nominating and Governance Committee reviewed the Board Membership Criteria (described in the section of the Proxy Statement entitled "Director Nomination
Process") and the specific experience, qualifications, attributes, and skills of each nominee, including membership(s) on the board of directors of other public companies. The
following pages contain biographical and other information about the nominees. Following each nominee's biographical information, we have provided information concerning the particular experience,
qualifications, attributes and/or skills that led the Nominating and Governance Committee and the Board to determine that each nominee should serve as a Director. In addition, all of our Directors
serve or have served on boards and board committees (including as committee chairs) of other public companies, which the Board believes provides them with additional board leadership and governance
experience, exposure to best practices, and substantial knowledge and skills that further enhance the functioning of our Board. 
 Nominees for Director:  













 


 

  Linda G. Alvarado, 59, President and Chief Executive Officer, Alvarado Construction, Inc., a Denver-based commercial general contractor, construction management and
development company. In 1976, Ms. Alvarado founded Alvarado Construction, Inc. and has overseen the growth of that enterprise as a commercial general contracting and design/build development firm conducting business
across the United States and internationally.
Director since: 2000 Other current directorships: Pitney Bowes, Inc. Other directorships in the past five
years: Lennox International Inc., QWEST Communications International, Inc., and The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc.
Ms. Alvarado's leadership role and experiences in establishing and building successful businesses, including founding and serving as President and Chief Executive Officer of Alvarado Construction, Inc., President of Palo Alto, Inc.,
which owns and operates numerous YUM! Brands restaurants in several states, and co-owner of the Colorado Rockies Major League Baseball Club, her skills in operations, financial and audit matters, and her experiences as a director at the public
companies listed above, qualify her to serve as a director of 3M.




21



 
Table of Contents













 


 

  George W. Buckley, 64, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer since December 2005. Before joining 3M in 2005, Dr. Buckley
was Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Brunswick Corporation, a global manufacturer and marketer of recreation products, since 2000, and served in other executive positions at Brunswick Corporation from 1997 to 2000. He
also held various leadership roles at Emerson Electric Co. as Chief Technology Officer and President of the Electric Motors Division from 1993 to 1997.
Director since: 2005 Other current directorships: Archer-Daniels-Midland Company and Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. Other directorships in the past five years: Ingersoll-Rand plc and Tyco International Ltd.
Dr. Buckley's Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering and his Doctoral degree in Engineering in joint study at Huddersfield and Southampton Universities, his leadership roles at Emerson Electric Co. and British
Railways (as Managing Director of the Central Services Division), his service as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Brunswick Corporation, his in-depth understanding of 3M's technologies and global businesses, his expertise and knowledge of
managing a large global corporation across multiple industries and markets, his skills in business and financial matters, and his experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify him to serve as a director and Chairman of the
Board of 3M.



 


 

  Vance D. Coffman, 66, Retired Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Lockheed Martin Corporation, a high technology aerospace and defense company. Dr. Coffman served in various executive capacities at Lockheed Martin Corporation before becoming Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 1998. He retired as Chief Executive Officer in 2004 and as Chairman of the Board in
2005. Director since: 2002 Other current directorships: Amgen Inc. and Deere & Company Other directorships
in the past five years: Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
Dr. Coffman's Bachelor of Science degree in Aerospace Engineering from Iowa State University and his Masters and Doctoral degrees in Aeronautics and Astronautics from Stanford University and his various leadership roles and experiences at
Lockheed Martin, including serving as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, his role in the integration of Lockheed and Martin Marietta Corporations, his understanding of the challenges of managing a complex global organization, the
breadth of his experiences and skills in business and financial matters, and his experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify him to serve as a director of 3M.




22



 
Table of Contents













 


 

  Michael L. Eskew, 61, Retired Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, United Parcel Service, Inc., a provider of specialized transportation and logistics
services. Mr. Eskew was appointed Executive Vice President in 1999 and Vice Chairman in 2000 before becoming Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of UPS in January 2002. He retired as Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer at the end of 2007 but remained as a director of UPS.
Director since: 2003 Other current directorships: United Parcel Service, International Business Machines Corp., and Eli Lilly and Company
Mr. Eskew's degree in industrial engineering from Purdue University, his leadership roles and experiences at United Parcel Service, including serving as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, his knowledge of and extensive
experiences in global logistics, his skills in financial and audit matters, and his experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify him to serve as a director of 3M.



 


 

  W. James Farrell, 68, Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Illinois Tool Works Inc., a multi-national manufacturer of highly engineered fasteners, components,
assemblies and systems. Mr. Farrell served in various executive capacities since joining ITW before becoming Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 1996. He retired as Chief Executive Officer in 2005 and as Chairman in
2006.
Director since: 2006 Other current directorships: Abbott Laboratories, The Allstate Corporation, and United Continental Holdings, Inc.
Other directorships in the past five years: Kraft Foods, Inc., and Sears, Roebuck and Co.
Mr. Farrell's Bachelor of Science degree in electrical engineering from the University of Detroit, his leadership roles and experiences at Illinois Tool Works, including serving as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer for over ten
years, his knowledge of and extensive experiences in global diversified manufacturing, his operational expertise and skills in financial and audit matters, and his experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify him to serve
as a director of 3M.



 


 

  Herbert L. Henkel, 62, Retired Chairman of the Board, Ingersoll-Rand plc, a manufacturer of industrial products and components. Mr. Henkel
retired as Ingersoll-Rand's Chief Executive Officer, a position he held since October 1999, on February 4, 2010, and retired as Chairman of the Board on June 3, 2010. Mr. Henkel served as President and Chief Operating Officer of
Ingersoll-Rand from April 1999 to October 1999. Mr. Henkel served in various leadership roles at Textron, Inc., including its President and Chief Operating Officer from 1998-1999. Director since: 2007
Other current directorships: C. R. Bard, Inc. and Visteon Corporation Other directorships in the past five years: AT&T Corp.
Mr. Henkel's Bachelor's and Master's degrees in Engineering from Polytechnic University of New York and Masters of Business Administration from the Lubin School at Pace University, his leadership roles and experiences at Textron, Inc. and
Ingersoll-Rand, including serving as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, his knowledge of and extensive experiences in engineering, manufacturing, management, sales and marketing in a variety of industries, his skills in financial and
audit matters, and his experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify him to serve as a director of 3M.




23



 
Table of Contents













 


 

  Edward M. Liddy, 65, Partner, Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, LLC, a private equity investment firm, from April to September 2008 and rejoined
the firm in January 2010. At the request of the Secretary of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Mr. Liddy served as Interim Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of American International Group, Inc. (AIG), a global insurance and financial
services holding company, from September 2008 until August 2009. Mr. Liddy served as Chairman of the Board of The Allstate Corporation, a personal lines insurer, from January 1999 to April 2008 and as its Chief Executive Officer from January
1999 to December 2006.
Director since: 2000 Other current directorships: Abbott Laboratories and The Boeing Company Other directorships in the past
five years: The Kroger Co. and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Mr. Liddy's undergraduate degree from Catholic University and his Masters of Business Administration from George Washington University, his leadership roles and experiences at Sears, Roebuck and Co. as Chief Financial Officer from
1992-1994 and at Allstate as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, his knowledge of and extensive experiences in insurance, his expertise and knowledge of financial and audit matters, and his experiences as a director at the public
companies listed above, qualify him to serve as a director of 3M.



 


 

  Robert S. Morrison, 68, Retired Vice Chairman of PepsiCo, Inc., a processor of packaged foods and beverages. Mr. Morrison served as Vice
Chairman of PepsiCo, Inc. from 2001 to February 2003. From 1997 until the 2001 merger with PepsiCo, Mr. Morrison was Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Quaker Oats Company. Mr. Morrison served in various leadership
roles at Kraft Foods, Inc. from 1983 to 1997, including its Chief Executive Officer from 1994-1997. From June 30 to December 6, 2005, Mr. Morrison served as interim Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of 3M
Company. Director since: 2002
Other current directorships: Aon Corporation and Illinois Tool Works Inc. Other directorships in the past five years: The Tribune Company
Mr. Morrison's Bachelor of Science degree from the College of the Holy Cross and his Masters of Business Administration from the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, his leadership roles and experiences at Kraft Foods, The Quaker Oats
Company, and PepsiCo, his knowledge of and extensive experiences in managing global consumer products companies, his skills in business and financial matters, and his experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify him to
serve as a director of 3M.




24



 
Table of Contents













 


 

  Aulana L. Peters, 69, Retired Partner, Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP. Mrs. Peters is a retired partner of the law firm of Gibson,
Dunn & Crutcher where she was a partner from 1980 to 1984 and 1988 to 2000. From 1984 to 1988, she served as a Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission. From January 2001 to April 2002, Mrs. Peters served as a member of
the Public Oversight Board ("POB") of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Mrs. Peters has also served as a member of the Steering Committee for Financial Accounting Standards Board's Financial Reporting Project and a member
of the POB's Blue Ribbon Panel on Audit Effectiveness. Currently, Mrs. Peters serves on the U.S. Comptroller General's Accountability Advisory Panel and is a member of the International Public Interest Oversight Board which oversees the standard
setting process of the International Federation of Accountants for auditing, assurance, independence, and ethics standards.
Director since: 1990 Other current directorships: Deere & Company and Northrop Grumman Corporation Other
directorships in the past five years: Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc.
Mrs. Peters' law degree from the University of Southern California, her experiences as a partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher and as a Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission, her extensive experience and skills in
accounting and audit matters and her experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify her to serve as a director of 3M.



 


 

  Robert J. Ulrich, 67, Retired Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Target Corporation, an operator of large-format general
merchandise and food discount stores. Mr. Ulrich began his retailing career as a merchandising trainee in Target's department store division (Dayton Hudson) in 1967 and advanced through various management positions. He
became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Target Stores in 1987 and was elected Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Target Corporation in 1994. Mr. Ulrich retired as Target's Chief Executive Officer on May 1, 2008, and retired as
Chairman of the Board on January 31, 2009.
Director since: 2008 Other directorships in the past five years: YUM! Brands, Inc.
Mr. Ulrich's bachelor of arts degree from the University of Minnesota, his leadership roles and experiences at Dayton Hudson and Target Corporation, his knowledge of and extensive experiences in retailing and in building Target Stores into the
second-largest retailer in the United States, his skills in business and financial matters, and his experiences as a director at the public companies listed above, qualify him to serve as a director of 3M.




 Recommendation of the Board  
        The Board of Directors unanimously recommends a vote "FOR" the election of these nominees as directors. Proxies
solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted "FOR" these nominees unless a stockholder indicates otherwise in voting the proxy.
25




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
 PROPOSAL NO. 2         RATIFICATION OF THE APPOINTMENT OF  INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     
        The Audit Committee has appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm to audit the
Company's consolidated financial statements for the year ending December 31, 2011. If the stockholders do not ratify the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Audit Committee will
reconsider the selection. 
        During
2010, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP served as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm and also provided certain tax and other audit-related services. For a
description of those services and the fees paid, see section entitled "Fees of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm." 
        Representatives
of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are expected to attend the Annual Meeting where they will be available to respond to questions and, if they desire, to make a
statement. 
 Recommendation of the Audit Committee  
        The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors unanimously recommends a vote "FOR" the ratification of the
appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2011. Proxies solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted "FOR" ratification
unless a stockholder indicates otherwise in voting the proxy.
 
 
 PROPOSAL NO. 3         ADVISORY VOTE ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION     
        As required by Section 14A of the Securities Exchange Act, the Company is providing its stockholders with the opportunity to
cast an advisory vote on the compensation of its executives as described in this Proxy Statement. Accordingly, the Company is submitting to stockholders the following resolution for vote by our
stockholders: 
        "RESOLVED,
that the stockholders approve, on an advisory basis, the compensation of the Company's Named Executive Officers as disclosed in this Proxy Statement pursuant to the
compensation disclosure rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (including in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, the accompanying compensation tables and related narrative)." 
        As
described in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, the compensation of 3M's executives during 2010 reflected a record-breaking year for the Company in terms of financial
performance. This performance exceeded all estimates and plans relied upon at the beginning of the year in
establishing targets for measuring the performance of the Company as it pertains to the incentive compensation to be earned by such executives. As disclosed in last year's Proxy Statement, the 2010
compensation of 3M's executives also reflects one-time special grants of restricted stock units made early in the year to both recognize the loyalty and leadership demonstrated by these
executives in guiding the Company through the global economic crisis of 2008-2009 and motivate these executives to continue their strong performance and engagement in 2010, and that
positioned the Company for the rapid recovery reflected in its 2010 results. 
        While
the Board of Directors and especially the Compensation Committee intend to carefully consider the results of the voting on this proposal when making future decisions regarding
executive compensation, the vote is not binding on the Company or the Board and is advisory in nature. 
26



 
Table of Contents
 Recommendation of the Board  
        The Board of Directors unanimously recommends a vote "FOR" this proposal for the reasons discussed above.
Proxies solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted "FOR" this proposal unless a stockholder indicates otherwise in voting the proxy.
 
 
 PROPOSAL NO. 4         ADVISORY VOTE ON THE FREQUENCY OF  ADVISORY VOTES ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION     
        As required by Section 14A of the Securities Exchange Act, the Company is providing its stockholders with the opportunity to
cast an advisory vote on the frequency with which stockholders will be offered the opportunity to cast future advisory votes on the compensation of its executives. Stockholders may choose from the
following alternatives: 1 Year, 2 Years, 3 Years, or to abstain from voting on this proposal. 
        After
careful consideration, the Board of Directors recommends annual ("1 Year") advisory votes on the compensation of the Company's executives. It believes that annual votes will
provide the clearest and most useful feedback from stockholders to the Company and the Compensation Committee in this important area, and will confirm the Company's commitment to frequent and
transparent communications with investors. 
        Stockholders
are not voting to approve or disapprove of the Board's recommendation. Instead, stockholders have four choices with respect to this proposal: "1 Year", "2 Years", "3 Years",
or "Abstain". For the reasons discussed above, we are asking our stockholders to vote for a frequency of "1 Year" when voting on this proposal. 
        While
the Board of Directors and especially the Compensation Committee intend to carefully consider the results of the voting on this proposal, the vote is not binding on the Company or
the Board and is advisory in nature. 
 Recommendation of the Board  
        The Board of Directors unanimously recommends a vote in favor of conducting an advisory vote on executive
compensation every "1 Year". Proxies solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted in favor of conducting an advisory vote on executive compensation every "1 Year" unless a stockholder indicates
otherwise in voting the proxy.
 
 
 PROPOSAL NO. 5         STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL ON POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS     
        3M has received a stockholder proposal from Trillium Asset Management Corp., 711 Atlantic Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02111, on
behalf of The Agape Foundation, owner of 250 shares of 3M common stock (the "Proponent"), along with several additional co-filers. The Proponent has requested that the Company include the
following proposal and supporting statement (in italics) in its Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The proposal may be voted on at
the Annual Meeting only if properly presented by the Proponent or the Proponent's representative. For the reasons set forth following the Proponent's statement, 3M's Board of Directors recommends that
you vote "AGAINST" this proposal. 
27



 
Table of Contents

 REVIEW POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS POLICY  
 Supporting Statement:  

        The Supreme Court's Citizens United decision in January 2010 legalized the use of corporate funds to directly
pay for ads supporting or opposing candidates and to contribute to state or local elections.
        3M contributed at least $1.4 million in corporate funds since the 2002 election cycle. (CQ:
http://moneyline.cq.com/pml/home.do and National Institute on Money in State Politics:
http://www.followthemoney.org/index.phtml.)
        In September 2010, 3M donated $100,000 to MN Forward, a group created in the wake of the Supreme Court decision to collect donations by corporations (Wall Street
Journal (8/7/10) to influence the outcome of 2010 state races. MN Forward focuses on economic policies and appears to ignore a candidate's other positions in making endorsements and contributions. MN
Forward made campaign contributions to a Minnesota gubernatorial candidate who is a vocal opponent of same-sex marriage and full parenting rights for same-sex households. This
triggered demonstrations, petitions, boycotts and considerable negative publicity for Target and Best Buy, which also made significant contributions to MN Forward.
        The shareholders believe this example illustrates the risks posed by corporate political expenditures, whether made directly or indirectly, and the serious
reputational consequences that could negatively affect the company and shareholder value.
        Corporate political spending is of increasing concern to investors and corporations. Over 75 S&P 500 companies now disclose political expenditures on their
website, including half of the S&P 100. Shareholder resolutions urging such disclosure averaged more than 30% in favor in 2010, indicating strong concern. As long-term shareholders
of 3M, we support transparency and accountability regarding direct and indirect political contributions to candidates, political parties, political organizations or ballot referenda; independent
expenditures; and electioneering communications on behalf of a federal, state or local candidate.
        In the aftermath of Citizens United, we believe the Board should review 3M's policies and practices regarding political spending and report results to
shareowners, with particular attention to the potential risk of such contributions to our company's reputation and competitiveness.
        Resolved: The shareholders request that the independent members of the Board of Directors provide a comprehensive report on
3M's:


1.Policies and procedures for political contributions and expenditures (direct and indirect) made with corporate funds, and the process
for assessing their potential impacts on the company's public image, sales and profitability;
2.Monetary and non-monetary contributions and expenditures (direct and indirect) used to participate or intervene in any
political campaign on behalf of (or in opposition to) any candidate for public office, and used in any attempt to influence the general public, or segments thereof, with respect to elections or
referenda. The report shall include the following:


a.An accounting through an itemized report that includes the identity of the recipient as well as the amount paid to each recipient of
the Company's funds that are used for political contributions or expenditures as described above; and
b.The title of the person or persons in the Company who participated in making the decisions to make the political contribution or
expenditure.


        The report shall be disclosed to shareholders by Sept 2011.  
28



 
Table of Contents
 Board's Statement Opposing the Proposal  
        The Board believes that the proposal represents an unnecessary and burdensome duplication of the Company's existing processes and
disclosures, and that the proposal would unduly interfere with management's legitimate desire to participate in the election process as it determines best serves the Company's and stockholders'
interests. After careful consideration, and for the reasons set forth below, the Board believes that the proposal is not in the best interests of the Company or its stockholders. 


1.The
Company already substantially complies with the demands of the proposal. The Company has a specific Business Conduct Policy covering "Political
Activities" and requires that all of the Company's political activities and contributions comply fully with applicable state and federal laws. Further, since 2007, the Company has voluntarily
published a detailed explanation of the Company's political contributions which is available on our Web site at www.3M.com under Investor Relations —
Corporate Governance — "Political Contributions and Activities." There, the Company sets out in detail the processes we use and the factors we consider when making political
contributions, as well as the processes we use for legal, financial, and executive oversight of our political activities and contributions.
2.3M
has a Political Action Committee ("3M PAC"), which is funded by voluntary employee contributions. We provide on our Web site a link to the 3M PAC's
Federal Election Commission reports. At the state and local level, since 2002 3M has consistently contributed under $100,000 per year in the aggregate to candidates, and in the rare instances in which
we have made contributions in excess of $50,000 to so-called "527 Organizations," which are political committees that report to the Internal Revenue Service, we voluntarily disclose those
contributions on our Web site as well. The Company believes that these disclosures, which exceed the requirements of applicable laws, represent sufficient and reasonable transparency respecting the
Company's political activities. In addition, 3M's positions on important public policy issues, 3M's engagement in government and lawmaking processes, and 3M and 3M PAC political contributions are
reviewed at least annually with the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board and certified to the PAC Board.
3.We
believe, in order to advocate the Company's and stockholders' interests, we must actively participate in the political process. Our public policy
priorities and our political contributions are focused on our Company's and stockholders' business interests. The Company's management, we believe, is in the best position to know the views of
candidates on issues of importance to the Company. The Company takes account of considerations that might put us at competitive disadvantage or might impair the Company's reputation. Our principal
focus, however, is on advancing our business interests. We recognize that candidates who receive contributions from the Company or the 3M PAC will not necessarily agree with our positions on all
issues, so we support candidates who, on balance, support issues and positions that management determines are in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders.
4.The
Company's contribution to MN Forward was considered and made to advance the Company's business interests. MN Forward is an Independent Expenditure
Political Committee organized under the laws of Minnesota, the state in which 3M has its global headquarters. According to its Web site, MN Forward was "established to ensure that private-sector job
creation and economic growth are at the top of the agenda during the 2010 campaign." As the Proponents note, MN Forward "focuses on economic policies," not on social policy issues which, while not
unimportant to the Company, are not the primary focus of the Company's participation in the election process. Management's responsibility is to balance these competing interests in deciding whether to
support particular candidates or communications. The Company's contribution in 2010 was properly reported to and, in turn, by MN Forward, 

29



 
Table of Contents


published
on the State Campaign Finance and Public Disclosure Board Web site, and voluntarily disclosed by the Company on our Web site. 


 Recommendation of the Board  
        The Board of Directors unanimously recommends a vote "AGAINST" this proposal for the reasons discussed above.
Proxies solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted "AGAINST" this proposal unless a stockholder indicates otherwise in voting the proxy.
30




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  INFORMATION ON STOCK OWNERSHIP OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS     
        The following table includes all 3M stock-based holdings, as of February 28, 2011, of the directors and the Named Executive
Officers set forth in the Summary Compensation Table, and the directors and executive officers as a group. 
 
 
  Common Stock and Total Stock-Based Holdings     




















 
 


Name and Principal Position



 
Stock(1) 
 
Restricted
Stock
Units/
Deferred
Stock(2) 
 
Total(3) 
 


 Linda G. Alvarado, Director
 
 
 19,706
 
 
 —
 
 
 19,706
 


 Vance D. Coffman, Director
 
 

25,568
 
 

—
 
 

25,568
 


 Michael L. Eskew, Director
 
 

18,109
 
 

—
 
 

18,109
 


 W. James Farrell, Director
 
 

7,756
 
 

—
 
 

7,756
 


 Herbert L. Henkel, Director
 
 

12,128
 
 

—
 
 

12,128
 


 Edward M. Liddy, Director
 
 

30,331
 
 

—
 
 

30,331
 


 Robert S. Morrison, Director
 
 

116,398
 
 

—
 
 

116,398
 


 Aulana L. Peters, Director
 
 

47,532
 
 

—
 
 

47,532
 


 Robert J. Ulrich, Director
 
 

8,855
 
 

—
 
 

8,855
 


 George W. Buckley, Director,
Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer
 
 

1,036,636
 
 

137,007
(5)
 

1,173,643
(5)


 Patrick D. Campbell,
Chief Financial Officer
 
 

494,738
(6)
 

26,672
 
 

521,410
(6)


 Inge G. Thulin,
Executive Vice President
 
 

401,417
 
 

44,734
 
 

446,151
 


 Hak Cheol Shin,
Executive Vice President
 
 

280,806
 
 

51,790
 
 

332,596
 


 Michael A. Kelly,
Executive Vice President
 
 

178,541
 
 

20,265
 
 

198,806
 


 All Directors and Executive Officers as a Group (26 persons)(4)
 
 

4,913,864
 
 

513,095
 
 

5,426,959
 


 
 




FOOTNOTES
TO COMMON STOCK AND TOTAL STOCK-BASED HOLDINGS TABLE 
        (1)   This column lists beneficial ownership of 3M common stock as calculated under SEC rules, including restricted stock held
by certain of the Executive Officers over which they have sole voting power but no investment power. The restricted stock generally vests over a three- to five-year period if the executive
remains continuously employed by the Company and is subject to forfeiture under certain circumstances. Unless otherwise noted, voting power and investment power in the shares are exercisable solely by
the named person, and none of the shares are pledged as security by the named person. In accordance with SEC rules, this column also includes shares that may be acquired pursuant to stock options that
are or will be exercisable within 60 days of February 28, 2011 as follows: Mr. Buckley (1,141,291), Mr. Campbell (488,564), Mr. Thulin (393,593), Mr. Shin
(271,682), Mr. Kelly (168,366), and Mr. Morrison (92,632). Mr. Morrison's options were granted during his service as interim CEO from 
31



 
Table of Contents
June 30
to December 6, 2005. This column also includes the number of shares of the Company's common stock which the nonemployee directors will receive upon termination of membership on
the Board of Directors for any reason as follows: Ms. Alvarado (9,100), Mr. Coffman (20,022), Mr. Eskew (18,109), Mr. Farrell (7,756), Mr. Henkel (12,128),
Mr. Liddy (30,331), Mr. Morrison (19,235), Mrs. Peters (42,162), and Mr. Ulrich (5,850). This column includes the following shares over which the identified director or
Named Executive Officer has shared voting and investment power through family trusts or joint accounts: Mr. Morrison (3,934). 
        (2)   This column reflects restricted stock units that generally vest over a three- to five-year period, assuming
continued employment until each vesting date (or until the individual retires from the Company, in some cases). This column also includes the following shares of the Company's common stock which the
Named Executive Officer or other Executive Officers are entitled to receive following their retirement from the Company as a result of their election to defer the payout of their 2008 performance
share awards under the 3M Performance Unit Plan: Mr. Buckley (27,063.1), and All Directors and Executive Officers as a Group (30,211.796). The Executive Officers do not have voting power with
respect to the shares listed in this column. 
        (3)   This column shows the individual's total 3M stock-based holdings, including the securities shown in the "Stock" column
(as described in note 1) and restricted stock units/deferred stock (as described in note 2). 
        (4)   All Directors and Executive Officers, as a group, owned beneficially less than one percent of the outstanding common
stock of the Company. 
        (5)   Of this total number of shares, beneficial ownership of 4,992.271 shares earned by Mr. Buckley as a result of his
2008 performance share award under the 3M Performance Unit Plan has been assigned to his former spouse pursuant to their marital dissolution agreement. 
        (6)   Of this total number of shares, 1,277 shares credited to Mr. Campbell's Company stock account in the Company's
401(k) plan have been assigned to his former spouse in connection with the dissolution of their marriage. The Company anticipates that these shares will be formally transferred to his former spouse
pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order. 
 
 
  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF MORE THAN 5 PERCENT STOCKHOLDERS     
        The following table sets forth information regarding beneficial ownership of more than 5 percent of the outstanding 3M stock. 

















Name/Address



 
Common Stock
Beneficially Owned 
 
Percent of
Class 
 


 State Street Corporation(1)
State Street Financial Center
One Lincoln Street
Boston, MA 02111
 
 
52,898,941
 
 
7.4
 






        (1)   State Street Corporation ("State Street") reported in a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC on February 11,
2011, that it held as of December 31, 2010, shared voting and shared dispositive power with respect to 52,898,941 shares of 3M common stock. State Street serves as trustee for certain 3M
savings plans, including the Company's Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan, a 401(k) retirement savings plan. Under the terms of the plans, State Street is required to vote
shares allocated to the accounts of the participants in accordance with instructions received from such participants. State Street disclaims beneficial ownership of all of the shares listed above.


32



 
Table of Contents




 
 
  SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE     
        Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires our directors and executive officers, and any person owning more
than 10 percent of 3M common stock, to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission reports regarding their ownership and changes in ownership of our stock. As a practical matter, 3M assists its
directors and executive officers by monitoring transactions and completing and filing Section 16 reports on their behalf. 3M believes that during 2010, its directors and executive officers
complied with all Section 16(a) filing requirements. In making this statement, 3M has relied upon examination of the copies of Forms 3, 4, and 5 and the written representations of its
directors and executive officers. 
 
 
  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION     
 
    Compensation Discussion and Analysis     
 Executive Summary  
        2010 was a record-breaking year for 3M. By the end of the year, the Company had set new records for net sales of $26.7 billion,
earnings per diluted share of $5.63 (earnings per diluted share excluding special items of $5.75), and economic profit of $2.2 billion (economic profit excluding special items of
$2.3 billion). When compared to 2009, these amounts represent increases of 15 percent (in net sales), 23 percent (in earnings per diluted share excluding special items), and
34 percent (in economic profit excluding special items). 



33



 
Table of Contents
        The
Company achieved these results while making significant investments to improve its long-term sales and growth potential (including research and development, acquisitions
of companies that provide new platforms for growth, and increased sales and marketing focused on high-growth markets). This performance far exceeded both beginning of the year external
estimates as well as the Company's earnings guidance, which occurred at a time of considerable economic uncertainty as most companies worried about the slow pace of recovery and the likelihood of a
double dip recession. 



        While
none of its executives' compensation is based directly on the Company's earnings per share, three performance measures which do directly affect the amount of their compensation
(Organic Sales Growth, Local Currency Sales, and Economic Profit*) are strongly correlated to the Company's earnings per share and changes in such earnings per share.  

*These
terms and others appearing in capital letters throughout this Compensation Discussion and Analysis are defined below in the "Terms" beginning on
page 38. 
34



 
Table of Contents
        Measured
on the basis of Organic Sales Growth, the Company grew much faster during 2010 than the major economies in which it operates (as reflected in the following table comparing 3M's
Organic Sales Growth over the past decade to the performance of the Worldwide Industrial Production Index, as published by Global Insight). 



        This
surge in Organic Sales Growth following the global economic crisis of 2008-2009, combined with the Company's excellent operational performance, is key to understanding
both the outstanding financial performance delivered by the Company during 2010 as well as the compensation earned by the Company's executives over the past year. 
        Local
Currency Sales (the growth in which is similar to Organic Sales Growth) and Economic Profit versus plan are the two main performance metrics used to determine the annual incentive
compensation earned by a large portion of the Company's workforce, including all of the Named Executive Officers. Since the Company's annual incentive plans measure its performance against these
metrics as compared to its internal targets for each year, the extent by which 3M's Local Currency Sales and Economic Profit exceeded these targets caused increases in the annual incentive
compensation earned by many employees during 2010. For example, the Company's internal Local Currency Sales target for 2010 was set at $23.8 billion, which was consistent with the growth rate
experienced by the Company since 2005. However, the Company delivered Local Currency Sales of $26.3 billion in 2010, or 110 percent of the target. Similarly, the Company's internal Economic
Profit target for 2010 was set at $1.8 billion, a 2 percent annual increase in Economic Profit. Instead, the Company delivered Economic Profit of $2.4 billion, or 134 percent of target.
These results led to a base payout rate of 214 percent for employees paid on the basis of total 3M results. Many of the Company's businesses experienced similar or even greater outperformance, and
those employees paid on the basis of their particular business' results in some instances earned even larger payouts. 
        These
increases in 2010 annual incentive compensation explain a portion of the overall increases in Total Compensation of the Named Executive Officers reflected in the Summary
Compensation Table that follows. In the case of Mr. Buckley and Mr. Campbell, these increases in their annual incentive 
35



 
Table of Contents

compensation
also impacted the amount of retirement benefits they earned under their employment agreements. However, another important contributing factor in the increase in their disclosed pension
benefits earned during 2010 was a decrease in the discount rate used to estimate the value of future pension benefit payments (which reflected declines in the interest rates on corporate bonds on
which such discount rate is based). This factor was especially important in Mr. Buckley's situation, where this lower discount rate applied to all of his earned pension benefits. Combined with
the impact of his increased annual incentive compensation in 2010, the estimated value of his pension benefits increased by $3 million over the value of such benefits as of the end of 2009.
Changes in the discount rates are beyond the control of Mr. Buckley or the Company, and do not reflect any decisions or changes in the pension plans or arrangements providing these benefits. 
        A
third major factor in the overall increases in Total Compensation of the Named Executive Officers as reflected in the Summary Compensation Table was the one-time special
grants of restricted stock units described in the discussion of "Long-term Incentives — 2010 Grants" that follows. These grants were made in recognition of the
leadership and strategic vision demonstrated by 3M's executives in guiding the Company through the global economic crisis of 2008-2009, and for their role in positioning the Company for
the rapid recovery reflected in its 2010 results. 
 Factors Creating a Balance between Risk and Performance  
        3M's executive compensation program includes the following features designed to maintain an appropriate balance between providing
incentives to perform and delivering competitive total compensation, while protecting the Company against inappropriate risk-taking and conflicts among the interests of the Company, its
stockholders and the executives: 


•A large portion of each executive's Total Direct Compensation that varies with performance and is therefore at risk;  
•Stock ownership guidelines that are designed to help align the financial interests of executives with those of the
Company's stockholders;   
•A Compensation Committee of experienced and independent individuals, who are assisted by a compensation consultant that
provides no other services to the Company or 3M management besides providing pay survey data;   
•A comprehensive clawback policy that enables the Company to recover overpayments of incentive compensation when it is
required to make a material restatement of its financial statements;   
•"Double trigger" accelerated vesting for equity awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan in the event of a
change in control of the Company, meaning that vesting is accelerated only if an individual's employment is actually terminated within 18 months following the change in control; and  
•No tax gross-up provisions in any compensation plans or employment agreements, with the exception of the
agreements entered into with Mr. Buckley and Mr. Campbell at the time they joined 3M in 2005 and 2002, respectively. 

 Significant Compensation Actions During 2010  
        During 2010 the Company and the Compensation Committee made the following decisions and took the following actions with respect to the
Company's executive compensation program: 


•Amended the Long-Term Incentive Plan to (i) prohibit the repricing of outstanding stock options or
stock appreciation rights granted under the Plan to reduce the exercise or grant price of such awards, or other transactions with a similar effect, without the prior approval of the Company's 

36



 
Table of Contents


stockholders;
(ii) eliminate the prior "single trigger" accelerated vesting provision in the event of a change in control of the Company, and establish a "double trigger" vesting acceleration
provision; and (iii) eliminate a provision that would have required the Company to provide employees (including the Named Executive Officers) with a gross-up payment in the event
any excise tax was determined to apply as a result of the payment, vesting, or delivery of long-term incentive compensation awards made thereunder in the event of a change in control of
the Company.  


•Revised the Company's clawback policy for the recovery of excess incentive compensation paid to a senior executive
(including a Named Executive Officer) in the event that the Company is required to make a material restatement of its financial statements. This revision removed the condition requiring an
individual's misconduct to have caused the need for the restatement. Now, in the event of a material restatement that causes an incentive compensation payout to be higher than it should have been, the
Company may seek to recover the overpayment from all affected executives irrespective of whether their conduct contributed to the need for the restatement.   
•Resumed granting performance shares to the Company's executives (including all of the Named Executive Officers) as part of
their annual long-term incentive compensation awards, after a one-year interruption in such grants due to the economic crisis of 2008-2009 (when grants of
restricted stock units were made instead of performance shares). As part of this action, the Committee replaced one of the performance metrics utilized in prior grants (Economic Profit growth) with
two new metrics (Return on Invested Capital and sales from new products as measured by the New Product Vitality Index) designed to better align the executives' compensation from such awards with the
Company's success in pursuing its overall growth strategy while preserving its return on capital. At the same time, the Committee also revised the design of the performance shares to measure the
Company's results against each of the performance metrics separately for each year of the three-year performance period instead of averaging them over this period, and to vary the
weighting of such results by year (50 percent in year one, 30 percent in year two, and 20 percent in year three). This change is intended to moderate the impact of a single high or low year of
performance on the overall value of these three-year awards, while putting greater emphasis on the results achieved during the first portion of the performance period when the Committee
has greater confidence that the targets for such results reflect current business conditions. 

 Objectives of 3M's Executive Compensation Program  
        3M believes that the compensation of its executives should be closely tied to the performance and growth of the Company, so that their
interests are aligned with the interests of long-term 3M stockholders. Consistent with this philosophy, the following core principles provide a framework for the Company's executive
compensation program: 


•Total Direct Compensation should be competitive to attract the best talent to 3M, motivate executives to perform at their
highest levels, reward outstanding achievement, and retain those individuals with the leadership abilities and skills necessary for building long-term stockholder value;  
•The portion of Total Direct Compensation that varies with performance and is therefore at risk should increase with the
level of an individual's responsibility;   
•The program should balance incentives for delivering outstanding performance and the potential for encouraging excessive
risk-taking;   
•The goals for earning performance-based incentives should be consistent with the Company's business objectives and
increasing stockholder value; and 

37



 
Table of Contents


•Executives are most effectively motivated to build long-term stockholder value when a significant portion of
their personal net worth is held in 3M stock. 

        The
Compensation Committee regularly reviews the design of and risks associated with the Company's executive compensation program and, with the assistance of its independent compensation
consultant, makes decisions concerning changes in the executive compensation program when appropriate. The Committee also makes individual pay decisions regarding the compensation of the Company's 19
senior executives, including all of the Named Executive Officers. 
 Terms  
        This Compensation Discussion and Analysis uses the following terms when discussing executive compensation of the
Company: 


•"Benchmarking Groups" means both the survey comparator group and 3M's executive compensation peer group of 18 companies,
as described in the "Benchmarking" section of this CD&A.   
•"Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of 3M Company.   
•"Economic Profit" means the after-tax income of the Company or a business unit (operating income, plus
interest income, minus income taxes), adjusted to exclude special items and the impact of acquisitions or divestitures in the year each acquisition or divestiture is completed (unless such acquisition
or divestiture is included in the operating plan for the business), less a charge (10 percent in 2010) for the capital used to generate such after-tax operating income. Company
Economic Profit is calculated using total Company capital, while the Economic Profit of a business unit is calculated using only accounts receivable and inventories as capital.  
•"Local Currency Sales," a metric used in the Company's annual incentive plans, means the sales of the Company or a
business unit, in local currency, adjusted to exclude the impact of acquisitions or divestitures in the year each acquisition or divestiture is completed (unless such acquisition or divestiture is
included in the operating plan for the business).   
•"Named Executive Officers" means the five executives whose compensation is reported in the Summary Compensation Table of
this Proxy Statement. For 2010, these "Named Executive Officers" are George W. Buckley, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer; Patrick D. Campbell, Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer; Inge G. Thulin, Executive Vice President, International Operations; Hak Cheol Shin, Executive Vice President, Industrial and Transportation Business; and
Michael A. Kelly, Executive Vice President, Display and Graphics Business.   
•"New Product Vitality Index" means the percentage of the Company's total sales derived from products introduced within the
last five years.   
•"Organic Sales Growth," a metric used in determining the value of performance shares awarded under the 2008
Long-Term Incentive Plan, means the percentage amount by which the Company's worldwide organic volume growth (sales growth adjusted for acquisitions or divestitures, price and currency
effects) exceeds worldwide real sales growth as reflected in the worldwide Industrial Production Index, as published by Global Insight.   
•"Return on Invested Capital" means the after-tax income of the Company (operating income, plus interest
income, minus income taxes), adjusted to exclude special items and the impact of acquisitions or divestitures in the year each acquisition or divestiture is completed, divided by the average quarterly
operating capital of the Company (total assets, minus total liabilities other than debt). 

38








 










Table of Contents 


•"Total Cash Compensation" means the total of an individual's base salary and annual incentive compensation.  
•"Total Direct Compensation" means the total of an individual's Total Cash Compensation plus the grant value of their
annual long-term incentive compensation awards (which is based on their grant date fair value as measured under accounting standards). 

 Benchmarking  
        In order to accomplish the objective of providing competitive Total Direct Compensation, 3M annually surveys the executive compensation
practices of a large group of comparator companies (approximately 160, although the number and identity of the companies may vary from year to year). Survey data is statistically regressed to
recognize the different sizes of the comparator companies (based on annual revenues) as compared to the size of 3M. The survey data is obtained from three consulting firms (Aon Hewitt,
Frederic W. Cook & Co., Inc., and Towers Watson). The survey comparator group consists of companies in the Dow Jones Industrial Average (excluding financial services companies), and
other companies with annual revenue exceeding $10 billion that participate in the three consultants' executive compensation surveys. By using survey data covering a large number of comparator
companies, 3M is able to conduct a rigorous benchmarking process with more complete and reliable data for each executive position benchmarked. The Committee does not review the identity of the
companies in this survey comparator group. 
        In
addition, Aon Hewitt and Frederic W. Cook & Co., Inc. provide pay data and information on the executive compensation practices at the companies in 3M's executive
compensation peer group. This pay data is used by the Committee to verify the benchmarking results for each executive position benchmarked, helping to ensure that the Company's compensation objectives
are being met. 3M's executive compensation peer group consists of the following 18 companies, as recommended by the Committee's independent compensation consultant and approved by the Committee: 












Avery Dennison Corporation
 
Honeywell International Inc.


Caterpillar Inc.
 
Illinois Tool Works Inc.


Danaher Corp.
 
Johnson & Johnson


Deere & Company
 
Kimberly-Clark Corporation


E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company
 
Medtronic, Inc.


Eaton Corporation
 
The Procter & Gamble Company


Ecolab Inc.
 
Textron Inc.


Emerson Electric Co.
 
Tyco International Ltd.


General Electric Company
 
United Technologies Corporation




        The
companies in this executive compensation peer group were selected because (1) their performance is monitored regularly by the same market analysts who monitor the performance
of 3M, and/or (2) they meet several criteria based on similarity of their business and pay models, market capitalization (based on an 8-quarter rolling average), and annual
revenues. During 2010 the Committee reviewed both the criteria for selecting companies to be included in this peer group as well as the identity of the 18 companies included in the group, and decided
to make no changes in the peer group. 
 How the Committee uses this Benchmarking Information  
        When establishing and adjusting the Total Direct Compensation of the Named Executive Officers and other senior executives, the
Committee uses the pay data from the Benchmarking Groups. The Committee also uses information on the executive compensation practices at companies in the executive compensation peer group when
considering design changes to the Company's executive compensation program. 
39



 
Table of Contents
        With
this information, the Committee generally aims to provide the Company's executives with Total Direct Compensation that is at or very close to the median of the corresponding
compensation paid to executives by companies in the Benchmarking Groups. Both the Total Cash Compensation and long-term incentive compensation of these executives are modified based on
their individual performance results, with high performers (but not average or low performers) receiving increases in compensation that can over time bring their amounts to or near the
75th percentile of the corresponding compensation paid to executives by companies in the Benchmarking Groups. 
 Role of the Compensation Committee and its Advisors  
        3M pays its executives compensation to recognize their contributions to the success of its business and provide incentives for them to
deliver performance that meets the growth, profitability, and other objectives of the Company. All elements of this compensation are determined by the Committee, which is composed solely of
independent nonemployee directors. In addition, the Committee's decisions concerning the compensation of 3M's Chief Executive Officer are subject to ratification by all of the independent members of
the Board of Directors. 
        During
2010, the Committee was assisted by its independent compensation consultant, George B. Paulin of Frederic W. Cook & Co., Inc. In addition to participating in
the meetings of the Committee, Mr. Paulin provides the Committee with significant assistance and advice in the review of the Company's salary structure, annual and long-term
incentive compensation plans, compensation-related risks, and other executive pay policies. He also provides expert knowledge of marketplace trends and best practices relating to executive
compensation practices and competitive pay levels. Mr. Paulin and his firm provide no other services to the Company or 3M management, with the exception of providing the pay survey data
described above and advisory support to the Nominating and Governance Committee on the compensation of 3M's nonemployee directors. 
        3M's
executive officers assist the Committee with the process of determining the compensation of the Company's executives. In particular, Mr. Buckley, assisted by 3M's Senior Vice
President, Human Resources, performs an annual performance evaluation of each of 3M's senior executives whose compensation is determined by the Committee. The results of this annual performance
evaluation form the basis for Mr. Buckley's recommendations to the Committee as to the annual merit base salary and target annual incentive compensation increases for such senior executives as
well as the size of their annual long-term incentive compensation awards. The Committee discusses these recommendations with Mr. Buckley at its meetings prior to making its
decisions on the amount of any increase to an executive's annual base salary or target annual incentive compensation or any long-term incentive compensation awards. 
 Elements of the Compensation Program  
        The compensation program for 3M's executives consists of the following elements: 


•base salary;   
•short-term cash incentive in the form of an annual incentive; and   
•long-term equity incentives in the form of performance shares, stock options, restricted stock, or restricted
stock units. 

        3M's
executives also participate in various benefit plans made available to most of 3M's U.S. employees, are eligible to participate in several deferred compensation plans (which enable
them to save for retirement or other financial planning purposes, while deferring the payment of income taxes), and receive certain other benefits and a limited number of perquisites, each of which
are described in further detail in the All Other Compensation Table. The entire program applied to approximately 110 executives during 2010, including all of the Named Executive Officers. The
following table shows how 
40



 
Table of Contents

the
2010 Total Direct Compensation of each Named Executive Officer was apportioned among these elements, and how these elements relate to the strategic business goals of the Company. This table also
reflects the relative balance among the elements as well as the alignment of these executives' compensation with the goal of creating long-term value for the Company and its stockholders. 


























 
 


Elements of Total Direct Compensation
 
Strategic Goal Alignment
 


 
 


Compensation
Element
 
At Risk
Compensation
 
Form of
Compensation
 
Percent of CEO's &
Other NEOs' Total
Direct
Compensation
 
Growth
 
Efficient Use
of Capital
 
Total
Shareholder
Return
 


 
 






 Base Salary
 
 
 
Cash
 
14% CEO
23% NEO
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


Annual Incentive
 
ü
 
Cash (200% cap)
Equity (amount
exceeding 200% cap)
 
22% CEO
17% NEO
 
 
•
 
 
•
 
 
•
 


 
 






 Stock Options
 
ü
 
Equity
 
32% CEO
30% NEO
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
 


 
 


Performance Shares
 
ü
 
Equity
 
32% CEO
30% NEO
 
 
 •
 
 
•
 
 
•
 


 
 





 Base Salary  

        3M pays each of its executives a base salary in cash on a monthly basis. The amount of this base salary is reviewed annually, and is
not considered to be "at risk" as it does not vary with the performance of the Company. Base salaries are designed to compensate the executives for their normal day-to-day
responsibilities, and it is the only component of their compensation that is considered to be fixed rather than variable in nature. 

 Annual Incentive  

        3M provides its executives with annual incentive compensation through plans that are designed to align a significant portion of their
Total Cash Compensation with the financial performance of the Company and its business units. Each executive is assigned a target amount of annual incentive compensation as part of their Total Cash
Compensation, but the amount of their actual annual incentive compensation depends on the performance of 3M and its relevant business units. 3M's broad-based annual incentive plan delivers
short-term incentive compensation based on three performance metrics: 


•Local Currency Sales vs. plan (40 percent weighting);   
•Economic Profit vs. plan (40 percent weighting); and   
•3M Economic Profit vs. the prior year (20 percent weighting). 

        While
the annual incentive compensation earned by most 3M executives is determined under this broad-based incentive plan, the annual incentive compensation earned by 3M's Named Executive
Officers as well as the other senior executives whose compensation is decided by the Committee is determined under the Executive Annual Incentive Plan approved by 3M's stockholders at the 2007 Annual
Meeting. A total of 19 3M senior executives participated in this Executive Annual Incentive Plan during 2010. This Executive Annual Incentive Plan, which is intended to provide compensation that is
exempt from the $1 million annual deduction limit of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, provides performance-based compensation for which the performance goal is the Company's
earning of adjusted net income. 
        The
Executive Annual Incentive Plan establishes a maximum amount of annual incentive compensation that may be earned by each covered executive during a year, which is
one-quarter of one percent of the Company's adjusted net income for such year for each Named Executive Officer. 
41



 
Table of Contents

However,
the plan provides the Committee with the discretion to pay each covered executive less than this maximum amount based on such factors as it deems relevant. 
        The
primary factors considered by the Committee in exercising this discretion are each executive's individual performance, the amount of each individual's target annual incentive, and
the performance of the Company and its business units as measured by the three performance metrics referred to above and that are used to determine payouts under the broad-based annual incentive plan.
While the Committee considers and is guided by the amounts that would be payable under the broad-based annual incentive plan if these executives were covered by such plan, it is not bound by these
results and does exercise its discretion to pay different amounts. 
        Individual
performance is considered as a factor based upon the annual performance evaluation that Mr. Buckley, assisted by 3M's Senior Vice President, Human Resources, does for
each covered executive (other than himself) and the annual performance evaluation that the independent members of the Board of Directors do for Mr. Buckley. These performance evaluations are
done
according to 3M's overall performance assessment and management processes, which involve setting annual financial and non-financial goals and objectives for each individual and then
assessing each individual's performance against these goals and objectives at the end of the year. The annual performance evaluation assesses each executive's overall performance against these goals
and objectives, but does not assess performance against each goal or objective in a formulaic manner. 

 Long-term Incentives  

        3M provides long-term incentive compensation to its executives through the Long-Term Incentive Plan approved by
3M's stockholders at the 2008 Annual Meeting. This Plan is a typical omnibus-type plan that authorizes the Committee to grant stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock
appreciation rights, performance cash, performance shares and other stock awards to management employees of the Company. In 2010, the Company's stockholders approved an amendment to increase the
number of shares available under this plan by 29,000,000 shares. 

 Benefits and Perquisites  

        3M's executives generally participate in the same health care, disability, life insurance, pension, and 401(k) benefit plans available
to most of the Company's U.S. employees. 
        Executives
also receive a limited number of additional benefits and perquisites described in more detail in the All Other Compensation Table of this Proxy Statement. These additional
benefits and perquisites are provided for the convenience (financial planning assistance, for example), financial security (retirement contributions and premiums for additional life insurance
coverage, for example), or personal security (travel on corporate aircraft and monitoring service fees, for example) of the executives. 
        Two
of the Named Executive Officers (Mr. Buckley and Mr. Campbell) earn supplemental retirement benefits pursuant to their employment agreements with the Company, which
were negotiated at the time they agreed to leave their previous employers and join 3M. These supplemental benefits are designed to replace the pension benefits they failed to earn under the plans of
their previous employers because their accrued benefits under those plans do not grow with future increases in compensation, and it was necessary to provide these benefits in order to attract them to
3M. None of the other Named Executive Officers or other executives of the Company receive similar supplemental retirement benefits. 
 How 3M Determined the 2010 Compensation of the Named Executive Officers  
        All amounts were determined by the Committee, assisted by its independent compensation consultant, with the input of Mr. Buckley
(other than with respect to his own compensation). This input included Mr. Buckley's recommendations based on the results of his most recent annual performance 
42



 
Table of Contents

evaluation
of the other four Named Executive Officers. The Committee also utilized the compensation information from the companies in the Benchmarking Groups. In addition, the Committee reviewed tally
sheets comparing the amounts of compensation actually received by the Company's Named Executive Officers to the amounts reported in its annual Proxy Statement as well as the compensation that would be
owed to such individuals in the event of the termination of their employment. These tally sheets help the Committee better understand the Company's potential obligations to the Named Executive
Officers following the termination of their employment, as well as assessing the risk of any individual leaving the Company prematurely. 
        Differences
in the amounts of compensation provided to 3M's Named Executive Officers reflect a variety of factors, including job responsibilities, the market pay for executives
performing similar responsibilities (as measured by the pay information obtained from companies in the Benchmarking Groups), experience and individual performance. Initially, the Committee aims to
provide them with Total Direct Compensation that is at or very close to the median value of the corresponding compensation provided to executives with similar responsibilities at companies in the
Benchmarking Groups. 
        However,
the Committee adjusted the stock option portion of the long-term incentive compensation provided to the Named Executive Officers to reflect each individual's actual
individual performance during the previous year. High performers may receive long-term incentive compensation awards valued at or near the 75th percentile of the
long-term incentive compensation that companies in the Benchmarking Groups provide to executives with similar responsibilities. 

 2010 Base Salary and Target Total Cash Compensation  

        Changes in the base salaries of the Named Executive Officers (as well as their target Total Cash Compensation) are considered annually
by the Committee. Any adjustments are made after considering the most recent compensation data for executives with similar responsibilities at companies in the Benchmarking Groups, each individual's
position in the salary range for his or her position along with the individual's performance during the preceding annual period, and the experience of each individual. 
        In
February 2010, the Committee approved the following increases in the base salaries and target Total Cash Compensation of the Named Executive Officers other than Mr. Buckley: 





























 
 


Name
 
Previous
Base
Salary
 
New Base Salary
effective 4/1/10
 
%
Increase
 
Previous target
Total Cash
Compensation
 
New target Total
Cash
Compensation
effective 4/1/10
 
%
Increase
 


 
 


 



 Patrick D. Campbell
 
$
763,000
 
$
763,000
 
 
0.0
%
$
1,271,000
 
$
1,328,000
 
 
4.5
%


  
 


 Inge G. Thulin
 
$
594,000
 
$
600,000
 
 
1.0
%
$
990,000
 
$
1,035,000
 
 
4.5
%


  
 


 



 Hak Cheol Shin
 
$
567,000
 
$
579,000
 
 
2.1
%
$
945,000
 
$
997,000
 
 
5.5
%


  
 


 Michael A. Kelly
 
$
545,000
 
$
553,000
 
 
1.5
%
$
908,000
 
$
953,000
 
 
5.0
%


  
 




As a result of these increases, the target Total Cash Compensation of these Named Executive Officers ranged from 99 percent to 102 percent of the
median value of the corresponding compensation provided to executives with similar responsibilities at survey comparator companies in the Benchmarking Groups. The Committee made no changes to the base
salary or target Total Cash Compensation of Mr. Buckley, since his target Total Cash Compensation (due to the initial terms of his employment agreement and strong past performance) exceeds the
median value of the corresponding compensation provided to the CEOs in the Company's executive compensation peer group. 
        Mr. Campbell's
increase reflected a successful 2009 in terms of both (i) managing the expenses and headcount of two significant organizations (Finance and Information
Technology) below budget, and (ii) his role in helping the Company deliver annual earnings per share and Economic Profit that exceeded 
43



 
Table of Contents

the
Company's operating plan for the year. Mr. Thulin's increase reflected annual results that saw 3M's International Operations exceed their operating plan for sales, operating income and net
working capital turns. Mr. Shin's increase reflected a turnaround year for the Industrial and Transportation Business that he leads, as marked by the (i) implementation of a new growth
strategy, (ii) launch of a new Renewable Energy Division, and (iii) achievement of a record 28 percent New Product Vitality Index for the Business. Mr. Kelly's increase
reflected the success of the Display and Graphics Business that he leads in reestablishing itself as a consistent contributor to the Company's overall results while comfortably surpassing its
operating plan targets for sales and operating income. 

 2010 Annual Incentive  

        During 2010 the Committee chose to deliver short-term incentive compensation to its Named Executive Officers in the form of
an annual cash incentive under the Executive Annual Incentive Plan (and, in the event the amount of such incentive compensation exceeded 200 percent of the individual's target annual incentive, the
excess to be delivered in the form of restricted stock units under the Long-Term Incentive Plan). The Committee chose to deliver a portion of this annual incentive compensation in the form
of restricted stock units for the purposes of retention (since the units do not vest for three years, and require continued employment until the vesting date or retirement) and alignment with the
interests of stockholders. Each Named Executive Officer had a target annual incentive for the year, which is equal to the difference between their target Total Cash Compensation and their annual base
salary. As explained above in the "Annual Incentive" discussion under "Elements of the Compensation Program," the Committee considered the amount of an individual's target annual incentive together
with his or her individual performance during 2010 and the 2010 performance of 3M and its business units as measured under the Company's broad-based annual incentive plan when it exercised its
discretion to determine the amount of each Named Executive Officer's annual incentive compensation for 2010. 
        Since
the Company satisfied the Executive Annual Incentive Plan's performance objective by earning Adjusted Net Income (defined as the net income of 3M as reported in its Consolidated
Statement of Income of $4.085 billion, as adjusted to exclude $84 million of special items) in 2010 in the amount of $4.169 billion, the Plan authorized the Committee to approve
payments of annual incentive compensation to each Named Executive Officer equal to one-quarter of one percent of such Adjusted Net Income ($10,422,500). Utilizing the discretion reserved
to the Committee by the Plan, and in order to more closely align the payout to each individual with the 2010 performance of the Company and the relevant business unit as well as the individual's
performance, the Committee decided to reduce the amounts payable to the Named Executive Officers (including Mr. Buckley, for whom the Committee's decision to approve the reduced amount of his
2010 annual incentive was ratified by the independent members of the 3M Board of Directors) from the authorized maximum amount to the following amounts: 




















 
 


Name
 
Target Annual
Incentive
 
Actual 2010
Annual Incentive
 
Portion of 2010
Annual Incentive
delivered in RSUs
 


 
 


 



 George W. Buckley
 
$
2,795,000
 
$
6,886,209
 
$
1,296,209
 


  
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
$
551,423
 
$
1,228,623
 
$
125,777
 


  
 


 



 Inge G. Thulin
 
$
425,059
 
$
852,278
 
$
2,159
 


  
 


 Hak Cheol Shin
 
$
408,192
 
$
1,065,968
 
$
249,585
 


  
 


 



 Michael A. Kelly
 
$
390,976
 
$
875,458
 
$
93,506
 


  
 




        As
explained above, one of the primary factors considered by the Committee in utilizing its discretion to reduce the annual incentive payouts below the maximum permitted under the
Executive Annual Incentive Plan is the amounts that would have been payable under the Company's broad-based 
44



 
Table of Contents

annual
incentive plan (before applying a performance multiplier) if the Named Executive Officers had been covered by such plan. These amounts were based on the following performance results for the
Company and, as applicable, the respective business units of the Named Executive Officers during 2010 (dollar amounts in millions) in respect of each performance metric of the broad-based annual
incentive plan: 



































 
 


 
 
Local Currency Sales 
 
Economic Profit 
 
 
 
Weighted
Average
Payout %
Based on
Payout
Curve
 


 
 
Total
Company
Economic
Profit vs.
Prior Year
 


Business Unit
 
Plan
 
Actual
 
Actual vs.
Plan
 
Plan
 
Actual
 
Actual vs.
Plan
 


 
 


 Total Company
 
 $
23,822
 
 $
26,285
 
 
 110
%
 $
1,776
 
 $
2,388
 
 
 134
%
 
 138
%
 
 214
%


 
 


 Industrial & Transportation Business
 
 $
7,684
 
 $
8,482
 
 
 110
%
 $
803
 
 $
1,004
 
 
 125
%
 
 138
%
 
 201
%


 
 


 Total International
 
 $
15,219
 
 $
17,132
 
 
 113
%
 $
2,197
 
 $
2,533
 
 
 115
%
 
 138
%
 
 182
%


 
 


 Display & Graphics Business
 
 $
3,375
 
 $
3,851
 
 
 114
%
 $
449
 
 $
546
 
 
 122
%
 
 138
%
 
 204
%


 
 




        The Committee then adjusted the amounts of these payouts to reflect the 2010 individual performance of each Named Executive Officer. The amount of
Mr. Buckley's payout was increased in recognition of his consistently strong leadership and strategic vision, which led to double digit percentage increases during 2010 in the Company's net
sales (15 percent over 2009), earnings per share (23 percent over 2009), and economic profit (34 percent over 2009). The amount of Mr. Shin's payout was increased to
recognize an outstanding year for the Industrial and Transportation Business, which not only delivered a 19 percent increase in net sales and a 43 percent increase in operating income
during 2010, but positioned itself for even stronger growth in 2011 and beyond. The amounts of Mr. Thulin's and Mr. Kelly's payouts were increased to reflect their leadership of 3M's
International Operations and the Display and Graphics Business, respectively, both of which delivered solid increases in sales and operating income during 2010. The amount of Mr. Campbell's
payout was increased to recognize his performance in leading 3M's Finance and IT organizations, including recognition of his role in delivering record free cash flow (net cash provided by operating
activities, less purchases of property, plant, and equipment) of $4.1 billion during 2010. 

 Long-term Incentives — 2010 Grants  

        After considering the most recent long-term incentive compensation data from companies in the Benchmarking Groups and after
taking into account its evaluation of their individual performance during 2009, the Committee approved (and in the case of Mr. Buckley, the independent members of the Board of Directors
ratified) the following grant values of the Named Executive Officers' annual long-term incentive compensation awards for 2010. For ease of comparison, the following table also shows the
grant values of the Named Executive Officers' 2009 annual long-term incentive compensation awards and the percentage change between the two amounts. 




















 
 


Name
 
Grant Value of
2009 Annual
Awards
 
Grant Value of
2010 Annual
Awards
 
% Change
 


 
 


 George W. Buckley
 
$
7,820,000
 
$
8,000,000
 
 
2.3
 


  
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
$
2,074,000
 
$
2,192,000
 
 
5.7
 


  
 


 Inge G. Thulin
 
$
1,506,000
 
$
1,578,000
 
 
4.8
 


  
 


 Hak Cheol Shin
 
$
1,495,000
 
$
1,707,000
 
 
14.2
 


  
 


 Michael A. Kelly
 
$
1,306,000
 
$
1,594,000
 
 
22.1
 


  
 




45




 











Table of Contents 
        Mr. Shin and Mr. Kelly received larger percentage increases than the other Named Executive Officers in recognition of their outstanding individual
performance during 2009. Please see the explanation of such individual performance above in the "2010 Base Salary and Target Total Cash Compensation" discussion under "How 3M Determined the 2010
Compensation of the Named Executive Officers." 
        Consistent
with market practices at companies in the Benchmarking Groups, during 2010 the Committee chose to deliver one-half of the target grant value of the annual
long-term incentive compensation awards provided to 3M's Named Executive Officers in the form of stock options (before adjustment for individual performance) and the remaining
one-half in the form of performance shares. The performance criteria selected by the Committee for the performance shares awarded during 2010 were designed to focus management attention on
three key factors that create long-term stockholder value: Organic Sales Growth, Return on Invested Capital, and sales from new products as measured by the New Product Vitality Index. 
        The
number of shares of 3M common stock that could be delivered for each performance share awarded in 2010 is linked to the Company's performance as measured by the criteria of Organic
Sales Growth, Return on Invested Capital, and the New Product Vitality Index. Approximately 40 percent of this number will be determined by Organic Sales Growth, another 40 percent will
be determined by Return on Invested Capital, and the remaining 20 percent will be determined by the New Product Vitality Index. By continuing to use the Organic Sales Growth metric and by
adding the New Product Vitality Index metric for the 2010 awards, 60 percent of each individual's long-term incentive opportunity attributable to these awards is tied to the
Company's long-term sales growth objective, a key contributor to long-term stockholder value. Attainment of these three independent performance criteria is measured separately
for each calendar year during the three-year measurement period, with each year weighted as follows (2010 — 50 percent; 2011 —
30 percent; and 2012 — 20 percent). However, the formulas by which the Company's performance is measured do not change over the three-year performance
period. 
        The
number of shares of 3M common stock that could actually be delivered at the end of the three-year performance period ending on December 31, 2012, may be anywhere
from 0 percent to 200 percent of each performance share granted, depending on the performance of the Company during such performance period. However, an executive may forfeit all or a
portion of such shares if he or she does not remain employed by the Company throughout the three-year performance period. 
        The
Committee approved the following formulas for determining the number of shares of 3M common stock actually delivered for each performance share awarded, with the total number of
shares actually delivered being the sum of the number of shares earned as a result of the Company's achievement of each of the three performance objectives as follows: 



























 
 


Organic Sales
Growth
Exceeding IPI
 
% of
number of
Performance
Shares
 
Return on
Invested Capital
 
% of
number of
Performance
Shares
 
New Product
Vitality Index
 
% of
number of
Performance
Shares
 
Total % of
number of
Performance
Shares
 


 
 


 below -1.0%
 
 
0
%
below 15.0%
 
 
0
%
below 22.0%
 
 
0
%
 
0
%


  
 


 -1.0%
 
 
8
%
15.0%
 
 
8
%
22.0%
 
 
4
%
 
20
%


  
 


 0.5%
 
 
40
%
20.0%
 
 
40
%
29.0%
 
 
20
%
 
100
%


  
 


 2.0% or higher
 
 
80
%
22.5% or higher
 
 
80
%
36.0% or higher
 
 
40
%
 
200
%


  
 




        The above formulas are not a prediction of how 3M will perform during the years 2010 through 2012. The sole purpose of
these formulas, which were approved by the Committee in February 2010, is to establish a method for determining the payment of long-term incentive compensation under the
Long-Term Incentive Plan. 3M is not providing any guidance, nor updating any prior  
46



 
Table of Contents

 guidance, of its future performance with the disclosure of these formulas, and you are cautioned not to rely on these formulas as a prediction of 3M's future performance.
        In
addition to the above annual long-term incentive awards, during 2010 the Compensation Committee also approved (and in the case of Mr. Buckley, the independent
directors of the Board of Directors ratified) the following one-time grants of restricted stock units to each of the Named Executive Officers: 

















 
 


Name
 
Number of
Restricted
Stock Units
 
Grant Date
Fair Value
 


 
 


 George W. Buckley
 
 
50,814
 
$
4,000,078
 


  
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
 
13,974
 
$
1,100,033
 


  
 


 Inge G. Thulin
 
 
10,163
 
$
800,031
 


  
 


 Hak Cheol Shin
 
 
10,163
 
$
800,031
 


  
 


 Michael A. Kelly
 
 
10,163
 
$
800,031
 


  
 




        These
one-time grants were intended to recognize the engagement, leadership, and strategic vision exhibited by these individuals during the global economic crisis that began
in 2008. In the opinion of the Committee, providing these one-time grants properly aligns the awards these individuals received with their strong performance during 2009. These
one-time grants were also designed to motivate the Named Executive Officers to continue that strong performance and engagement in 2010. The value of these one-time grants
ranged from 47 percent to 51 percent of the grant values of each individual's 2010 annual long-term incentive compensation awards. At the same time, the Committee also
approved similar one-time grants of restricted stock units for the other executives of the Company. 
        These
one-time grants are reflected in the Summary Compensation Table that follows as a portion of the value of the Stock Awards received by the Named Executive Officers
during 2010. 

 Long-term Incentives — Payouts for Grants made in Prior Years  

        2010 marked the final year of the three-year performance period of the long-term incentive compensation awards
made to 3M's executives in 2008 under the Performance Unit Plan. The performance share awards made during 2008 were designed to deliver compensation based on the performance of the Company over the
years 2008, 2009, and 2010 as measured by its Economic Profit growth and Organic Sales Growth. Pursuant to the formula approved by the Committee at the time the awards were made, the Company's
performance during this three-year performance period (average annual increase in Economic Profit of 4.5 percent and average annual increase in Organic Sales, as 
47



 
Table of Contents
compared
to the worldwide Industrial Production Index, of 1.0 percent) resulted in a payout of 0.51 shares of 3M common stock per performance share. 




















 
 


Name
 
Number of target
Performance
Shares
 
Number of
actual 3M
shares earned
 
Value of
actual 3M
shares earned
 


 
 


 George W. Buckley
 
 
54,210
 
 
27,647.10
 
$
2,473,586
 


  
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
 
13,585
 
 
6,928.35
 
$
619,879
 


  
 


 Inge G. Thulin
 
 
9,924
 
 
5,061.24
 
$
452,829
 


  
 


 Hak Cheol Shin
 
 
9,924
 
 
5,061.24
 
$
452,829
 


  
 


 Michael A. Kelly
 
 
9,924
 
 
5,061.24
 
$
452,829
 


  
 




 Stock Ownership Guidelines  
        The Company's stock ownership guidelines apply to all Section 16 officers of the Company and are designed to increase an
executive's equity stake in 3M and more closely align his or her interests with those of 3M's stockholders. The guidelines provide that the Chief Executive Officer should attain beneficial ownership
of 3M stock equal to six times his or her annual base salary at the time of appointment (increased by the Committee from five times annual base salary in January 2011), the Executive and Senior Vice
Presidents should attain beneficial ownership of 3M stock equal to three times their annual base salary at the time of appointment, and Vice Presidents should attain beneficial ownership of 3M stock
equal to two times their annual base salary at the time of appointment. While the stock ownership guidelines provide that executives should attain this beneficial ownership of 3M stock within five
years of their appointment to these positions, all of our Named Executive Officers have already attained or exceeded these ownership levels. However, if an officer is not on track (measured by
multiplying 20 percent of the target ownership by the number of years since their appointment) to meet the required level of ownership, the guidelines provide that he or she will be required to
hold and not sell a sufficient number of the after-tax 3M shares received upon the next payout of performance shares to be on track to satisfy the required ownership level. For purposes of
these guidelines, shares owned directly by an officer or by members of the officer's immediate family, shares owned indirectly through an officer's account in the Company's 401(k) plan, unvested
shares of restricted stock owned by an officer, and shares represented by unvested restricted stock units granted to an officer are considered to be beneficially owned by the officer and are counted
in determining attainment of the required ownership level. 
 Policy on Reimbursement of Incentive Payments ("Clawback")  
        The Company's Board of Directors has adopted a policy requiring the reimbursement of excess incentive compensation payments made to an
executive in the event that 3M is required to make a material restatement of its financial statements. This policy applies to all senior executives of the Company (including all of the Named Executive
Officers). As described above in the section "Significant Compensation Actions During 2010," in May 2010 the Board of Directors revised this policy to remove the condition requiring an individual's
misconduct to have caused the need for the restatement. Now, in the event of a material restatement that causes an incentive compensation payout to be higher than it should have been, the Company may
seek to recover the overpayment from all affected executives irrespective of whether their conduct contributed to the need for the restatement. 
48



 
Table of Contents
 Limit on Tax-Deductible Compensation  
        Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code prohibits 3M from deducting compensation paid in any year to its Chief Executive
Officer and each other Named Executive Officer whose compensation is reported in the Summary Compensation Table for such year by reason of being among the three most highly compensated officers for
that year, other than the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer ("Covered Employees"), in excess of $1 million, but does not subject performance-based compensation to this
limit. Due to his service as the Company's interim Chief Executive Officer for a period of approximately six months in 2005, one of the members of the Committee (Robert S. Morrison) does not
participate in the Committee's decisions involving performance-based compensation since he is not considered an "outside director" of the Company for purposes of Section 162(m) and the
regulations published thereunder. 
        The
Committee continues to emphasize performance-based compensation for executives and thus minimize the effect of Section 162(m). However, the Committee believes that its primary
responsibility is to provide a compensation program that attracts, retains, and rewards the executive talent necessary for the Company's success. Consequently, in any year the Committee may authorize
nonperformance-based compensation in excess of $1 million. The Committee recognizes that the loss of the tax deduction may be unavoidable under these circumstances. 
 Severance or Change in Control Arrangements  
        With the exception of Mr. Buckley and Mr. Campbell, who entered into employment agreements when they joined the Company
(leaving senior positions at other major companies, and in the case of Mr. Buckley, a chief executive officer position), 3M does not have severance plans or arrangements with any of its Named
Executive Officers. The absence of such arrangements reflects the Company's and the Committee's preference for operating without legally binding severance commitments, and preserves maximum
flexibility to deal with individual situations if and when the need arises. Exceptions were made in the cases of Mr. Buckley and Mr. Campbell at the time they were hired by the Company,
and were part of the employment terms and conditions offered by the Company to persuade them to leave their previous employers. 
        Similarly,
3M does not have arrangements providing for payments or other compensation in the event of a change in control of the Company, other than the payment, exercise, or delivery of
long-term incentive compensation awards issued prior to a change in control. For awards with a grant date prior to February 9, 2010, in the event of a change in control of the
Company, both the Long-Term Incentive Plan and its predecessors provided for (1) accelerated vesting of outstanding stock options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units, and
(2) the immediate termination and payout of all outstanding performance units and performance
shares. This provision was intended to protect the previously-earned long-term incentive compensation of employees (including the Named Executive Officers) against the uncertainty and risk
of nonpayment that might occur following a takeover of the Company. 
        As
described above in the section "Significant Compensation Actions During 2010," in 2010 the Board of Directors amended the Long-Term Incentive Plan to eliminate the prior
"single trigger" accelerated vesting provision in the event of a change in control of the Company, and to establish a "double trigger" vesting acceleration provision. This new "double trigger"
provision applies to awards with a grant date on or after February 9, 2010 (including the one-time grants of restricted stock units described above). Specifically, the provision
means that an employee whose employment is terminated without cause or who resigns for "good reason" within 18 months following a change in control of the Company will have
(1) accelerated vesting of any outstanding stock options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units, and (2) an immediate payout of any outstanding performance unit and performance
share awards. The Board of Directors also amended the Long-Term Incentive Plan to eliminate a provision that would have required the Company to provide employees (including the 
49



 
Table of Contents

Named
Executive Officers) with a gross-up payment in the event any excise tax was determined to apply as a result of the payment, vesting, or delivery of long-term incentive
compensation awards made thereunder in the event of a change in control. The Company does not intend to include change in control "single trigger" accelerated vesting or excise tax
gross-up provisions in future equity awards or agreements. 
        The
employment agreements that the Company has entered into with Mr. Buckley and Mr. Campbell require the Company to provide them with tax gross-up payments in
the event that any payments or other benefits provided to them under their agreements become subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code as a result of a
change in control of the Company. The purpose of such tax gross-up payments would be to give each individual sufficient cash with which to pay such excise tax and the additional income and
other taxes payable as a result of such payment. The Company does not intend to include such "excise tax gross-up payment" provisions in future employment agreements or arrangements it may
establish with its executives. 
 
 
  COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT     
        In accordance with the SEC's disclosure requirements for executive compensation, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
of 3M Company (the "Committee") has reviewed and discussed with 3M Management the Compensation Discussion and Analysis. Based on this review and these discussions with 3M Management, the Committee
recommended to the Board of Directors that this Compensation Discussion and Analysis be included in the 2011 Proxy Statement of 3M Company. 

Submitted
by the Compensation Committee 
Vance
D. Coffman, Chair
Edward M. Liddy
Robert S. Morrison
Aulana L. Peters
Robert J. Ulrich 

 
 
  Assessment of Risk Related to Compensation Programs     
        Based on the Company's recent assessment, the Company has determined that none of its compensation policies and practices is reasonably
likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company. To conduct this assessment, the Company completed an inventory of its executive and non-executive compensation programs globally,
with particular emphasis on incentive compensation plans or programs. Based on this inventory, the Company evaluated the primary components of its compensation plans and practices to identify whether
those components, either alone or in combination, properly balanced compensation opportunities and risk. The Company believes that the Company's overall cash versus equity pay mix, balance of
shorter-term versus longer-term performance focus, balance of revenue versus profit focused performance measures, stock ownership guidelines, and "clawback" policy all work
together to provide its employees and executives with incentives to deliver outstanding performance to build long-term stockholder value, while taking only necessary and prudent risks. In
this regard, the Company's strong ethics and its corporate compliance systems, which are overseen by the Audit Committee, further mitigate against excessive or inappropriate risk taking. The
Compensation Committee, with assistance from its independent compensation consultant, George B. Paulin of Fredric W. Cook & Co., Inc., reviewed the Company's risk assessment and a
separate risk assessment that Mr. Paulin conducted for the Committee on the Company's executive compensation policies and practices. Based on their consideration of these assessments, the
Committee concurred with the Company's determination. 
50




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  2010 Summary Compensation Table     
        The following table shows the compensation earned or received during 2010, 2009, and 2008 by each of 3M's Named Executive Officers (as
determined pursuant to the SEC's disclosure requirements for executive compensation in Item 402 of Regulation S-K). 




































 
 


Name and Principal Position
 
Year
 
Salary
($)
 
Stock
Awards
($)(1)
 
Option
Awards
($)(2)
 
Non-Equity
Incentive Plan
Compensation
($)(3)
 
Change in
Pension Value
and
Nonqualified
Deferred
Compensation
Earnings ($)(4)
 
All Other
Compensation
($)(5)
 
Total ($)
 


 
 


 



 George W. Buckley
 
 
2010
 
 
1,720,000
 
 
8,022,714
 
 
3,772,940
 
 
5,590,000
 
 
3,970,767
 
 
632,673
 
 
23,709,094
 


 
 



 Chairman of the
 
 
2009
 
 
1,720,000
 
 
4,333,655
 
 
3,757,572
 
 
3,859,112
 
 
943,165
 
 
322,289
 
 
14,935,793
 


 
 



 Board, President and
 
 
2008
 
 
1,720,000
 
 
4,002,422
 
 
3,363,492
 
 
2,977,410
 
 
0
 
 
252,423
 
 
12,315,747
 


 
 



 Chief Executive Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
 

2010
 
 

762,600
 
 

2,072,090
 
 

1,150,727
 
 

1,102,846
 
 

1,243,427
 
 

118,397
 
 

6,450,087
 


 
 Senior Vice President
 
 
2009
 
 
762,600
 
 
972,032
 
 
1,059,032
 
 
701,958
 
 
905,716
 
 
88,510
 
 
4,489,848
 


 
 and Chief Financial
 
 
2008
 
 
757,050
 
 
987,222
 
 
785,916
 
 
601,473
 
 
1,310,462
 
 
90,138
 
 
4,532,261
 


 
 Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 Inge G. Thulin
 
 

2010
 
 

598,500
 
 

1,500,049
 
 

1,043,937
 
 

850,119
 
 

760,144
 
 

155,380
 
 

4,908,129
 


 
 



 Executive Vice
 
 
2009
 
 
594,000
 
 
700,021
 
 
854,148
 
 
558,439
 
 
697,638
 
 
126,870
 
 
3,531,116
 


 
 



 President, International
 
 
2008
 
 
580,500
 
 
2,721,181
 
 
803,516
 
 
482,683
 
 
1,070,885
 
 
61,207
 
 
5,719,972
 


 
 



 Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Hak Cheol Shin(6)
 
 

2010
 
 

576,000
 
 

1,500,049
 
 

1,141,751
 
 

816,383
 
 

709,065
 
 

90,097
 
 

4,833,345
 


 
 Executive Vice
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 President, Industrial and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 Transportation Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 Michael A. Kelly(6)
 
 

2010
 
 

550,950
 
 

1,544,905
 
 

952,213
 
 

781,953
 
 

844,880
 
 

105,562
 
 

4,780,463
 


 
 



 Executive Vice
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 



 President, Display and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 



 Graphics Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 




FOOTNOTES TO 2010 SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE 
        (1)   The amounts in the Stock Awards column reflect the aggregate grant date fair value of such awards computed in accordance
with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, Compensation — Stock Compensation. Assumptions made in the calculation of these amounts are
included in Note 16 to the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 16, 2011. The amounts included in this column for the performance share awards made during 2010 are calculated based on the
probable satisfaction of the performance conditions for such awards. If the highest level of performance is achieved for these performance share awards, the maximum value of these awards at the grant
date would be as follows: Mr. Buckley — $8,000,014; Mr. Campbell — $1,944,114; Mr. Thulin — $1,400,036;
Mr. Shin — $1,400,036; and Mr. Kelly — $1,400,036. 
        (2)   The amounts in the Option Awards column reflect the aggregate grant date fair value of such awards computed in accordance
with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, Compensation — Stock Compensation. Assumptions made in the calculation of these amounts are
included in Note 16 to the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 16, 2011. 
        (3)   The amounts in the Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation column reflect the annual incentive compensation
earned by each individual during 2010 under the Company's Executive Annual Incentive Plan, with the exception of the portion of this annual incentive compensation to be paid in the form of restricted
stock units granted during 2011 under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan. This portion 
51



 
Table of Contents

of
the annual incentive compensation earned by each individual during 2010 will be reported in the Stock Awards column of the Company's 2011 Summary Compensation Table, as follows:
Mr. Buckley — $1,296,209; Mr. Campbell — $125,777; Mr. Shin — $249,585; Mr. Thulin — $2,159; and
Mr. Kelly — $93,506. 
        (4)   The amounts in the Change in Pension Value and Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Earnings column reflect the actuarial
increase in the present value of each individual's pension benefits under all defined benefit pension plans of the Company, determined using the same interest rate and mortality assumptions as those
used for financial statement reporting purposes. See Note 11 to the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, included in the Company's Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 16, 2011. There were no above-market earnings on deferred compensation under the Company's
nonqualified deferred compensation programs. 
        (5)   See the All Other Compensation table below for details. 
        (6)   No amounts are reported for Mr. Shin or Mr. Kelly for the years 2009 and 2008 since they were not Named
Executive Officers of the Company for those years. 
 
 
  2010 All Other Compensation Table     






































 
 


 
 
401(k)
Company
Match(1) 
 
VIP
Excess
Company
Match(2) 
 
Executive
Life
Insurance(3) 
 
Financial
Planning 
 
Personal
Aircraft
Use(4) 
 
Security
Systems/
Services(5) 
 
Personal
Auto
Use(6) 
 
3M
Products(7) 
 
Total 
 


 George W. Buckley
 
 $
11,025
 
 $
240,035
 
 $
0
 
 $
13,867
 
 $
151,206
 
 $
167,574
 
 $
48,394
 
 $
572
 
 $
632,673
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
 

11,581
 
 

28,598
 
 

63,152
 
 

13,963
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

1,103
 
 

118,397
 


 Inge G. Thulin
 
 

8,820
 
 

32,830
 
 

86,509
 
 

13,230
 
 

13,558
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

433
 
 

155,380
 


 Hak Cheol Shin
 
 

7,632
 
 

10,315
 
 

58,522
 
 

13,230
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

398
 
 

90,097
 


 Michael A. Kelly
 
 

8,820
 
 

37,165
 
 

46,085
 
 

13,230
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

262
 
 

105,562
 


 
 




FOOTNOTES TO 2010 ALL OTHER COMPENSATION TABLE 
        (1)   The amounts shown reflect 3M matching contributions under the tax-qualified 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and
Employee Stock Ownership Plan. All eligible employees under this plan may receive 3M matching contributions on their pre-tax contributions to the plan on up to six percent of their
eligible pay. 
        (2)   The amounts shown reflect 3M matching contributions under the VIP Excess Plan, a nonqualified defined contribution plan.
Eligibility for this plan and its matching contributions is limited to employees whose compensation exceeds a limit established by Federal income tax law for tax-qualified defined
contribution plans. 
        (3)   The amounts shown reflect the amount of premiums paid by the Company on behalf of each individual with respect to their
respective whole life or universal life insurance policies obtained for them under the Executive Life Insurance Plan. 
        (4)   This amount reflects the aggregate incremental cost to the Company for Mr. Buckley's and Mr. Thulin's
personal use of corporate aircraft during 2010. This aggregate incremental cost was calculated by combining the variable operating costs of such travel, including the cost of fuel, landing fees,
on-board catering, and crew travel expenses. 
        (5)   This amount reflects the expenses incurred by 3M during 2010 for monitoring services and for the labor and materials
needed to complete several projects improving the personal security of 
52



 
Table of Contents

Mr. Buckley
and his family at their residences. Included in this amount are the costs of installing a new security system and improving the perimeter security at one of his residences. 
        (6)   This amount reflects the aggregate incremental cost to the Company for Mr. Buckley's personal use of
Company-provided automobiles and local ground transportation. These costs include lease payments (or the amortized purchase cost) for the vehicles, fuel, insurance premiums, and maintenance. 
        (7)   These amounts reflect the aggregate incremental cost to the Company of providing certain 3M products to the individuals
for their personal use. 
 
 
  2010 Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table     









































 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All
other
Stock
Awards:
Number
of Shares
of Stock
or Units
(#) 
 
All
other
Option
Awards:
Number of
Securities
Underlying
Options
(#)(3) 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
Estimated Future
Payouts Under
Non-Equity Incentive
Plan Awards(1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
Estimated Future Payouts
Under Equity Incentive Plan
Awards(2) 
 
Exercise
or Base
Price of
Option
Awards
($/sh)(4) 
 
Grant
Date Fair
Value of
Stock and
Option
Awards ($)(5) 
 


Name



 
Grant
Date 
 
Target
($) 
 
Maximum
($) 
 
Threshold
(#) 
 
Target
(#) 
 
Maximum
(#) 
 


 



 George W. Buckley
 
 
02/09/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10,743
 
 
53,713
 
 
107,426
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4,000,007
 


 



 
 
n/a
 
 
2,795,000
 
 
10,422,500
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
02/09/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
228,663
 
 
78.72
 
 
3,772,940
 


 



 
 
02/09/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50,814
(6)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4,000,078
 


 



 
 
03/12/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
69
(7)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5,646
 


 



 
 
06/12/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
72
(7)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5,654
 


 



 
 
09/12/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
67
(7)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5,661
 


 



 
 
12/12/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
67
(7)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5,668
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
 

02/09/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

2,611
 
 

13,053
 
 

26,106
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

972,057
 


 
 
 
n/a
 
 
551,423
 
 
10,422,500
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
02/09/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13,974
(6)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,100,033
 


 
 
 
02/09/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
69,741
 
 
78.72
 
 
1,150,727
 


 



 Inge G. Thulin
 
 

02/09/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1,880
 
 

9,400
 
 

18,800
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

700,018
 


 



 
 
n/a
 
 
425,059
 
 
10,422,500
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
02/09/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10,163
(6)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
800,031
 


 



 
 
02/09/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50,166
 
 
78.72
 
 
827,739
 


 



 
 
07/27/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11,117
 
 
86.80
 
 
132,737
 


 



 
 
07/27/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6,990
 
 
86.80
 
 
83,461
 


 Hak Cheol Shin
 
 

02/09/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1,880
 
 

9,400
 
 

18,800
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

700,018
 


 
 
 
n/a
 
 
408,192
 
 
10,422,500
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
02/09/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10,163
(6)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
800,031
 


 
 
 
02/09/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
57,587
 
 
78.72
 
 
950,186
 


 
 
 
07/27/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11,016
 
 
86.80
 
 
131,531
 


 
 
 
07/27/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5,028
 
 
86.80
 
 
60,034
 


 



 Michael A. Kelly
 
 

02/09/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1,880
 
 

9,400
 
 

18,800
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

700,018
 


 



 
 
n/a
 
 
390,976
 
 
10,422,500
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
02/09/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10,163
(6)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
800,031
 


 



 
 
02/09/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
51,102
 
 
78.72
 
 
843,183
 


 



 
 
03/15/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
552
(8)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44,856
 


 



 
 
04/30/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3,532
 
 
88.67
 
 
43,196
 


 



 
 
04/30/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5,383
 
 
88.67
 
 
65,834
 


 
 




FOOTNOTES TO 2010 GRANTS OF PLAN-BASED AWARDS TABLE 
        (1)   The amounts shown as the Estimated Future Payouts Under Non-Equity Incentive Plan Awards reflect the target
and maximum amounts that may be earned by each individual during 2010 under the Executive Annual Incentive Plan. This Plan establishes a maximum amount of annual incentive compensation that may be
earned by each covered executive during a plan year (established for purposes of complying with Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code), which for each of the Named 
53



 
Table of Contents

Executive
Officers was one-quarter of one percent of the Company's adjusted net income for 2010, and then provides the Compensation Committee with the discretion to pay each covered
executive less than this maximum amount based on such factors as it deems relevant. These factors include, but are not limited to, individual performance, each individual's target annual incentive,
and the performance of the Company and its business units as measured by the three metrics used to determine payouts under the Company's broad-based annual incentive plan (see
"Elements of the Compensation Program — Annual Incentive" in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis of this Proxy Statement). While the Committee considers and is guided by the
amounts that would be payable under the broad-based annual incentive plan (based on the performance of 3M and its business units) if the Named Executive Officers were covered by such plan, it is not
bound by these results and may exercise its discretion to pay different amounts. 
        (2)   The amounts shown as the Estimated Future Payouts Under Equity Incentive Plan Awards reflect the threshold, target, and
maximum number of shares of 3M common stock that may be earned by each individual as a result of the performance shares granted to each individual during 2010 under the 2008 Long-Term
Incentive Plan. The actual number of shares of 3M common stock to be delivered as a result of these performance shares will be determined by the performance of the Company during the
three-year performance period of 2010, 2011, and 2012, as measured against three performance criteria selected by the Compensation Committee (Organic Sales Growth, Return on Invested
Capital, and the New Product Vitality Index). For more information on these performance criteria and the formulas for determining the number of shares of 3M common stock payable as a result of these
performance shares, please refer to the "Long-Term Incentives — 2010 Grants" portion of the Compensation Discussion and Analysis. 
        (3)   The amounts shown as the All Other Option Awards reflect the numbers of nonqualified stock options granted to each
individual during 2010 under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The options granted on February 9, 2010, were part of the Company's annual grant of stock options to the
approximately 5,000 employees participating in the plan. The options granted to Mr. Shin and to Mr. Thulin on July 27, 2010, and to Mr. Kelly on April 30, 2010,
represent progressive stock options (commonly referred to as reloads) issued upon their exercise (via a stock swap, using shares of 3M common stock already owned by the optionee) of nonqualified
options granted under pre-2005 versions of the Management Stock Ownership Program which provided for the receipt of such reloads when the optionee pays the exercise price in shares of the
Company's common stock. 3M offered progressive stock options with respect to nonqualified stock options granted before May 2005 to encourage executives to acquire and accumulate actual shares of 3M
common stock by exercising their stock options early rather than holding such options until the end of their term and then immediately selling the shares acquired upon exercise. Stock options granted
by the Company since May 2005 have not been eligible for the grant of new progressive stock options upon their exercise. 
        (4)   The exercise price for all stock options granted under the Company's 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan is set at
the fair market value of a share of 3M common stock on the option grant date (as required by the provisions of the plan). As provided in the plan, the fair market value of a share of 3M common stock
is computed as the closing price at which 3M common stock traded on the New York Stock Exchange on the applicable date. 
        (5)   The amounts in the Grant Date Fair Value of Stock and Option Awards column were determined in accordance with Financial
Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, Compensation — Stock Compensation and, in the case of performance share awards, are based upon the probable
outcome of the applicable performance conditions. Assumptions made in the calculation of these amounts are included in Note 16 to the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2010, included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 16, 2011. 
54



 
Table of Contents
        (6)   These amounts reflect the number of restricted stock units granted to each individual during 2010 under the 2008
Long-Term Incentive Plan. These restricted stock units vest in equal installments of one-third on each of the first three anniversaries of the grant date, assuming continued
employment until each vesting date or until the individual retires. 
        (7)   These amounts reflect additional grants of restricted stock units to Mr. Buckley in lieu of dividend equivalents
on a portion of his outstanding restricted stock units, as required by his employment agreement. 
        (8)   This amount reflects an additional grant of restricted stock units to Mr. Kelly as payment of a portion of his
annual incentive compensation earned for 2009 (the portion that exceeded 200 percent of his target annual incentive for such year was delivered in the form of restricted stock units granted in
2010). 
 
 
  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REGARDING THE EMPLOYMENT  AGREEMENTS OF THE NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS     
        Some of the grants and compensation reflected in the above tables are a direct result of the employment agreements that the Company has
entered into with two of the Named Executive Officers. The following summary identifies the material terms of these agreements that impacted the compensation of, and grants to, these individuals
during 2010. 
 George W. Buckley  
        3M has entered into an employment agreement with George W. Buckley providing for his employment as President and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company and for his election as Chairman of the Board of Directors of 3M. The agreement became effective December 6, 2005, and had an initial term of three years. Beginning on
December 6, 2006, the agreement automatically extends itself so that the remaining term of the agreement is always two years. However, the term will end on Mr. Buckley's
65th birthday (February 23, 2012) unless the parties otherwise agree. The Company and Mr. Buckley have amended the agreement on several occasions, and this summary reflects the
agreement as amended. 
        The
agreement requires that Mr. Buckley receive an annual base salary of $1,600,000. This base salary will be reviewed at least annually and may be increased by the Compensation
Committee of the Board, but may not be decreased without Mr. Buckley's consent. The agreement also requires that Mr. Buckley be eligible to participate in the Company's Executive Profit
Sharing Plan (subsequently replaced by the Executive Annual Incentive Plan), with a target annual bonus which is the greater of $2,600,000 and 150 percent of his annual base salary. 
        Pursuant
to the agreement, the Company granted to Mr. Buckley nonqualified stock options and restricted stock units. All of these stock options and restricted stock units have now
vested in full. Mr. Buckley may not sell or otherwise dispose of the shares of 3M common stock he received upon the vesting of these restricted stock units (except as required to pay
withholding taxes) prior to the termination of his employment without the consent of the Compensation Committee of the Board. 
        As
amended, the agreement gives Mr. Buckley (while he remains employed by the Company) the right to have the Company purchase one of his residences in Illinois or Minnesota at its
then prevailing value (to be determined by an appraiser mutually agreeable to both parties) if he is unable to complete the sale of such residence within 120 days after electing to exercise
this right. 
        The
agreement provides that Mr. Buckley will be eligible for the same perquisites that the Company makes available to its other senior executives. Mr. Buckley, along with
members of his family and invited guests, is allowed to use the aircraft owned by the Company for personal travel. The Company will provide Mr. Buckley with an automobile and driver for travel
in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, and with an 
55



 
Table of Contents

additional
luxury automobile for which the Company will pay all insurance, maintenance, gasoline, and other operating expenses. The Company will provide appropriate security at Mr. Buckley's
personal residences. 
        The
agreement provides that Mr. Buckley will earn a supplemental retirement benefit payable in the form of an annuity over his lifetime (or, if he so chooses, in the form of an
annuity payable over his lifetime and the lifetime of a joint annuitant) beginning following his termination of employment. The amount of this benefit will be the amount by which (a) a single
life annuity payable for Mr. Buckley's lifetime commencing at age 60 (or, if later, on the date of his termination of employment) equal to 40 percent of his highest average annual cash
compensation (base salary plus bonus) during any three consecutive years during his final ten years of employment (but not less than a minimum amount of $4,200,000), exceeds (b) the sum of his
actual pension benefits payable at age 60 (or, if later, on the date of his termination of employment) under the plans of the Company and his previous employers. The benefit formula for this
supplemental retirement benefit increases by 2 percent (from 40 percent) for each full year following Mr. Buckley's 60th birthday that he remains employed by the Company,
up to a maximum of 50 percent. This supplemental retirement benefit has now vested in full. In the event that the payments of this supplemental retirement benefit received by Mr. Buckley
prior to his death (or by Mr. Buckley and his joint annuitant prior to their deaths) are less than the actuarially equivalent lump-sum value of such annuity payments determined at
the time the payments commence, the Company will pay in a lump sum to his beneficiary (or to Mr. Buckley's estate, if the beneficiary is deceased) the amount by which such actuarially
equivalent lump-sum value exceeds the amount of payments received prior to his death (or prior to the deaths of Mr. Buckley and his joint annuitant). 
 Patrick D. Campbell  
        3M entered into an employment agreement with Patrick D. Campbell at the time he was hired to serve as the Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of the Company. While most of this agreement's terms expired on the third anniversary of his employment commencement date (February 1, 2005), several of its provisions
survived and remain in effect today. The Company and Mr. Campbell amended the agreement during 2008, and this summary reflects the agreement as amended. 
        The
agreement requires the Company to provide Mr. Campbell supplemental retirement benefits payable in the form of a lump sum following the termination of his employment. If he
remains employed by 3M for at least ten years, the amount of this lump sum will be the actuarially equivalent present value of an annuity payable for his lifetime commencing at age 60 and based on
45 percent of his highest average annual compensation (base salary plus profit sharing or annual incentive) over a four-year period. If Mr. Campbell is employed by 3M for
less than ten years, the amount of the lump sum and the lifetime annuity upon which the lump sum is based will be prorated accordingly (proration would reduce these amounts by a percentage determined
by dividing the number ten less the number of years he was employed by 3M by the number ten). The amount of such benefits will be reduced by the amount of his benefits under 3M's other pension plans
and the pension plans of his prior employer. Since Mr. Campbell has completed more than five years of employment with the Company, these supplemental retirement benefits are fully vested. 
56




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
        2010 OUTSTANDING EQUITY AWARDS AT FISCAL YEAR-END TABLE     



































 
 


 
 
Option Awards
 
Stock Awards
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


Name
 
Number of
Securities
Underlying
Unexercised
Options (#)
Exercisable
 
Number of
Securities
Underlying
Unexercised
Options (#)
Unexercisable
 
Option
Exercise
Price ($)
 
Option
Expiration
Date
 
Number of
Shares or
Units of Stock
That Have Not
Vested (#)
 
Market Value
of Shares or
Units of Stock
That Have Not
Vested ($)
 
Equity
Incentive Plan
Awards:
Number of
Unearned
Shares, Units
or Other
Rights That
Have Not
Vested (#)
 
Equity
Incentive Plan
Awards:
Market or
Payout Value
of Unearned
Shares, Units
or Other
Rights That
Have Not
Vested ($)
 


 
 


 



 George W. Buckley
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
107,426
(11)
 
9,270,864
 


 



 
 
250,000
 
 
 
 
 
78.150
 
 
12/06/2015
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
286,807
 
 
 
 
 
87.350
 
 
05/09/2016
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
188,724
 
 
 
 
 
84.780
 
 
05/08/2017
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
146,845
 
 
73,423
(1)
 
77.180
 
 
05/13/2018
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
96,347
 
 
192,697
(2)
 
54.110
 
 
02/08/2019
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
228,663
(3)
 
78.720
 
 
02/07/2020
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
71,072
(5)
 
6,133,514
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2,710
(6)
 
233,873
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
49,742
(7)
 
4,292,735
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26,106
(11)
 
2,252,948
 


 
 
 
9,395
 
 
 
 
 
55.975
 
 
02/01/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
7,289
 
 
 
 
 
80.950
 
 
02/01/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
19,671
 
 
 
 
 
89.650
 
 
02/01/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
40,000
 
 
 
 
 
64.500
 
 
05/14/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
44,000
 
 
 
 
 
61.850
 
 
05/13/2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
64,873
 
 
 
 
 
84.400
 
 
05/09/2014
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
71,185
 
 
 
 
 
76.800
 
 
05/08/2015
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
73,000
 
 
 
 
 
87.350
 
 
05/09/2016
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
45,393
 
 
 
 
 
84.780
 
 
05/08/2017
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
34,311
 
 
17,157
(1)
 
77.180
 
 
05/13/2018
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
27,154
 
 
54,310
(2)
 
54.110
 
 
02/08/2019
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
69,741
(3)
 
78.720
 
 
02/07/2020
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17,585
(5)
 
1,517,586
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13,630
(7)
 
1,176,269
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 Inge G. Thulin
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18,800
(11)
 
1,622,440
 


 



 
 
1,704
 
 
 
 
 
58.625
 
 
05/06/2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
11,117
(4)
 
86.800
 
 
05/06/2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
36,000
 
 
 
 
 
64.500
 
 
05/14/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
25,631
 
 
 
 
 
61.850
 
 
05/13/2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
6,990
(4)
 
86.800
 
 
05/13/2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
56,114
 
 
 
 
 
84.400
 
 
05/09/2014
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
67,975
 
 
 
 
 
76.800
 
 
05/08/2015
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
52,000
 
 
 
 
 
87.350
 
 
05/09/2016
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
45,758
 
 
 
 
 
84.780
 
 
05/08/2017
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
33,861
 
 
16,931
(1)
 
77.180
 
 
05/13/2018
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
19,861
 
 
39,723
(2)
 
54.110
 
 
02/08/2019
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
50,166
(3)
 
78.720
 
 
02/07/2020
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25,481
(9)
 
2,199,010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12,664
(5)
 
1,092,903
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9,883
(7)
 
852,903
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Hak Cheol Shin
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18,800
(11)
 
1,622,440
 


 
 
 
1,704
 
 
 
 
 
58.625
 
 
05/06/2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
11,016
(4)
 
86.800
 
 
05/06/2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
15,800
 
 
 
 
 
64.500
 
 
05/14/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
11,236
 
 
 
 
 
61.850
 
 
05/13/2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
5,028
(4)
 
86.800
 
 
05/13/2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
24,353
 
 
 
 
 
84.400
 
 
05/09/2014
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
17,043
 
 
 
 
 
76.800
 
 
05/08/2015
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
60,000
 
 
 
 
 
87.350
 
 
05/09/2016
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
35,441
 
 
 
 
 
84.780
 
 
05/08/2017
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
31,685
 
 
15,843
(1)
 
77.180
 
 
05/13/2018
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
19,590
 
 
39,182
(2)
 
54.110
 
 
02/08/2019
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
57,587
(3)
 
78.720
 
 
02/07/2020
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
32,077
(8)
 
2,768,245
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12,937
(5)
 
1,116,463
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10,163
(7)
 
877,067
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 Michael A. Kelly
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18,800
(11)
 
1,622,440
 


 



 
 
3,532
 
 
 
 
 
88.670
 
 
05/06/2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
626
 
 
 
 
 
64.500
 
 
05/14/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
5,383
 
 
 
 
 
88.670
 
 
05/14/2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
7,016
 
 
 
 
 
61.850
 
 
05/13/2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
18,514
 
 
 
 
 
84.400
 
 
05/09/2014
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
11,418
 
 
 
 
 
76.800
 
 
05/08/2015
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
17,693
 
 
 
 
 
87.350
 
 
05/09/2016
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
32,200
 
 
 
 
 
84.780
 
 
05/08/2017
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
25,085
 
 
12,543
(1)
 
77.180
 
 
05/13/2018
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
14,933
 
 
29,867
(2)
 
54.110
 
 
02/08/2019
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
51,102
(3)
 
78.720
 
 
02/07/2020
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12,937
(5)
 
1,116,463
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10,163
(7)
 
877,067
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
552
(10)
 
47,638
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 




57



 
Table of Contents
FOOTNOTES TO 2010 OUTSTANDING EQUITY AWARDS
AT FISCAL YEAR-END TABLE 
        (1)   These stock options vest in full on May 13, 2011. 
        (2)   These stock options vested or will vest in installments of one-half on February 8, 2011, and
February 8, 2012. 
        (3)   These stock options vested or will vest in installments of one-third on each of February 7, 2011,
February 7, 2012, and February 7, 2013. 
        (4)   As progressive stock options, these options vested in full on January 27, 2011 (6 months following the
grant date). 
        (5)   These restricted stock units vest in full on February 9, 2012. 
        (6)   These restricted stock units vest in installments of one-half on each of December 31, 2011, and the
earlier of December 31, 2012, or Mr. Buckley's last day of employment with the Company. 
        (7)   These restricted stock units vested or will vest in installments of one-third on each of February 9,
2011, February 9, 2012, and February 9, 2013. 
        (8)   These restricted stock units vest in full on December 1, 2012. 
        (9)   These restricted stock units vest in full on March 3, 2012. 
        (10) These restricted stock units vest in full on January 2, 2013. 
        (11) The shares of 3M common stock to be delivered as a result of the Company's performance over the three-year
performance period ending December 31, 2012, will not vest until December 31, 2012. Under the terms of the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, these shares of 3M common stock will
be delivered no later than March 15, 2013. 
 
 
        2010 OPTION EXERCISES AND STOCK VESTED TABLE     























 
 


 
 
Option Exercises and Stock Vested
 


 
 


 
 
Option Awards 
 
Stock Awards 
 


Name



 
Number of Shares
Acquired on
Exercise (#) 
 
Value Realized
on Exercise ($) 
 
Number of Shares
Acquired on
Vesting (#) 
 
Value Realized
on Vesting ($) 
 


 George W. Buckley
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
175,143.10
(4)
 
15,276,584
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
7,272.35
(5)
 
646,957
 


 Inge G. Thulin
 
 
28,538
(1)
 
660,194
 
 
5,341.24
(6)
 
474,846
 


 Hak Cheol Shin
 
 
26,107
(2)
 
632,586
 
 
5,061.24
(7)
 
452,829
 


 Michael A. Kelly
 
 
14,987
(3)
 
377,810
 
 
5,061.24
(7)
 
452,829
 


 
 




FOOTNOTES TO 2010 OPTION EXERCISES
AND STOCK VESTED TABLE 
        (1)   The stock options exercised by Mr. Thulin were granted between May 8, 2001, and August 11, 2009, and
had exercise prices between $58.625 and $71.340. Of this total number of options exercised, Mr. Thulin retained a total of 4,772 additional shares of 3M common stock after tax withholding and
payment of the exercise prices for these options. 
        (2)   The stock options exercised by Mr. Shin were granted between May 8, 2001, and October 27, 2009, and
had exercise prices between $58.625 and $76.000. Of this total number of options exercised, Mr. Shin retained a total of 4,196 additional shares of 3M common stock after tax withholding and
payment of the exercise prices for these options. 
58



 
Table of Contents
        (3)   The stock options exercised by Mr. Kelly were granted between May 8, 2001, and October 27, 2009, and
had exercise prices between $58.625 and $76.000. Of this total number of options exercised, Mr. Kelly retained a total of 2,255 additional shares of 3M common stock after tax withholding and
payment of the exercise prices. 
        (4)   This total number of shares reflects the sum of: (a) the vesting of 147,496 restricted stock units granted to
Mr. Buckley under the 2005 Management Stock Ownership Program or the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan; and (b) the deferred receipt of 27,647.10 shares acquired by
Mr. Buckley upon the vesting of his 2008 performance share award under the 3M Performance Unit Plan, which occurred upon the completion of the three-year performance period for this
award on December 31, 2010. Of this total number of restricted stock units, 142,808 were granted on December 6, 2005, pursuant to Mr. Buckley's employment agreement with the
Company, 1,072 were granted over the subsequent five-year period in lieu of dividend equivalents on a portion of these restricted stock units, 1,355 were granted on September 1,
2009, in performance of the Company's obligation to pay Mr. Buckley life insurance premiums under his employment agreement, and 1,072 were utilized to pay required withholding taxes on his
behalf. Of the total number of shares acquired by Mr. Buckley upon the vesting of his 2008 performance share award, 4,922.271 of these shares have been beneficially assigned to his former
spouse in connection with the dissolution of their marriage. 
        (5)   This total number of shares reflects the sum of: (a) the vesting of 344 restricted stock units granted to
Mr. Campbell under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan on February 9, 2010, and utilized to pay required withholding taxes on his behalf; and (b) 6,928.35 shares
acquired by Mr. Campbell upon the vesting of his 2008 performance share award under the 3M Performance Unit Plan, which occurred upon the completion of the three-year performance
period for this award on December 31, 2010. 
        (6)   This total number of shares reflects the sum of: (a) the vesting of 280 restricted stock units granted to
Mr. Thulin under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan on February 9, 2010, and utilized to pay required withholding taxes on his behalf; and (b) 5,061.24 shares acquired
by Mr. Thulin upon the vesting of his 2008 performance share award under the 3M Performance Unit Plan, which occurred upon the completion of the three-year performance period for
this award on December 31, 2010. 
        (7)   These shares were acquired by Mr. Shin and Mr. Kelly upon the vesting of their 2008 performance share
awards under the 3M Performance Unit Plan, which occurred upon the completion of the three-year performance period for these awards on December 31, 2010. 
59



 
Table of Contents
 
 
         PENSION BENEFITS     
        The following table shows the present value of the accumulated benefits payable to each of the Named Executive Officers, as well as the
number of years of service credited to each individual, under each of the Company's defined benefit pension plans (including any supplemental arrangements pursuant to their employment agreements)
determined using the same interest rate and mortality assumptions as those used for financial statement reporting purposes. See Note 11 to the Company's audited financial statements for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 16, 2011. 






















 
 


2010 Pension Benefits Table
 


 
 


Name



 
Plan Name 
 
Number
of Years
Credited
Service (#) 
 
Present
Value of
Accumulated
Benefits ($) 
 
Payments
During
Last
Fiscal
Year ($) 
 






 George W. Buckley
 
Employee Retirement Income Plan
 
 
5
 
 
217,931
 
 
0
 






 
 
Nonqualified Pension Plan
 
 
5
 
 
4,378,556
 
 
0
 






 
 
Supplemental Retirement Plan
 
 
5
 
 
11,557,665
 
 
0
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
Employee Retirement Income Plan
 
 
8
 
 
313,760
 
 
0
 


 
 
Nonqualified Pension Plan
 
 
8
 
 
1,682,945
 
 
0
 


 
 
Supplemental Retirement Plan
 
 
8
 
 
3,539,760
 
 
0
 






 Inge G. Thulin
 
Employee Retirement Income Plan
 
 
31
 
 
1,062,457
 
 
0
 






 
 
Nonqualified Pension Plan
 
 
31
 
 
3,779,620
 
 
0
 


 Hak Cheol Shin
 
Employee Retirement Income Plan
 
 
26
 
 
737,577
 
 
0
 


 
 
Nonqualified Pension Plan
 
 
26
 
 
2,323,093
 
 
0
 






 Michael A. Kelly
 
Employee Retirement Income Plan
 
 
29
 
 
853,454
 
 
0
 






 
 
Nonqualified Pension Plan
 
 
29
 
 
2,611,091
 
 
0
 


 
 




        The
Employee Retirement Income Plan ("ERIP") is a tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan maintained by 3M for its eligible employees in the United States. Effective
January 1, 2001, the Company amended the ERIP to include a pension equity formula for (1) employees hired or rehired on or after January 1, 2001, and (2) employees who
voluntarily elected the pension equity formula during the one-time choice election period in 2001. Of the Named Executive Officers, Mr. Shin, Mr. Thulin, and Mr. Kelly
participate under the non-pension equity formula of the ERIP (the Portfolio I Plan), while Mr. Buckley and Mr. Campbell participate under the pension equity formula of
the ERIP (the Portfolio II Plan). Retirement benefits under the ERIP are based on an employee's years of service and average annual earnings during the employee's four highest-paid
consecutive years of service. As applied to the Named Executive Officers, earnings for purposes of the ERIP include base salary and annual incentive compensation. 
        Under
the Portfolio I Plan, employees earn annual benefits payable at retirement generally equal to 1.15 percent of their high-four average annual earnings
multiplied by their years of service plus 0.35 percent of their high-four average annual earnings in excess of a Social Security breakpoint multiplied by their years of service (up
to a maximum of 35 years). The Social Security breakpoint is an average of the Social Security taxable wage bases for each of the 35 years ending with the year each employee qualifies
for receiving unreduced Social Security retirement benefits. Under the Portfolio I Plan, an employee may retire with an unreduced pension at age 60 (61 or 62 for employees born after
1942) and if the employee's age and service at the time of retirement total at least 90 (91 or 92 for employees born after 1942) the employee would receive a Social Security bridge payment until
age 62. Mr. Thulin is eligible to retire with reduced early retirement benefits under the Portfolio I Plan, with the 
60



 
Table of Contents

reduction
being equal to 5 percent of the pension otherwise payable for each year that he retires prior to age 61. 
        Under
the Portfolio II Plan, employees earn pension credits (from 3 percent to 12 percent) for each year of employment based on their age and accumulated years of
service under the Plan. Once their employment ends, these accumulated pension credits are multiplied by their high-four average annual earnings and added to an amount determined by
multiplying one-half of these accumulated pension credits by their high-four average annual earnings in excess of a Social Security integration level (70 percent of the
Social Security taxable wage base in the year employment ends). The sum of these two amounts is then converted into an annuity payable over the lifetime of the employee using fixed conversion factors.
The Portfolio II Plan does not provide any subsidies for early retirement. 
        As
a tax-qualified plan, the ERIP is subject to a variety of limits that apply to both the amount of any employee's earnings that may be considered when determining the
benefits earned under the plan as well as the maximum amount of benefits that any employee may earn. The Nonqualified Pension Plan is designed to provide additional benefits to employees, including
the Named Executive Officers, affected by these limits. The amount of benefits earned under this Nonqualified Pension Plan generally equal the amount of benefits an employee was not able to earn under
the ERIP as a result of the limits imposed by Federal tax laws. The benefits earned under this Nonqualified Pension Plan are generally paid in the form of a single lump-sum cash payment
following the termination of their employment (subject to any applicable delay under Federal tax laws). Current employees were given a one-time opportunity during 2008 to elect to receive
their benefits earned under this Nonqualified Pension Plan in the form of a life annuity following their retirement, and both Mr. Buckley and Mr. Shin elected to receive their benefits
in the form of a life annuity. 
        Mr. Buckley
and Mr. Campbell also earn supplemental retirement benefits pursuant to their employment agreements with the Company. These supplemental benefits, which were
negotiated at the time they agreed to leave their previous employers and join 3M, are designed to replace the pension benefits they failed to earn under the plans of their previous employers because
their
accrued benefits under those plans do not grow with future increases in compensation. These supplemental benefits are described in detail in the section titled "Additional Information Regarding the
Employment Agreements of the Named Executive Officers" following the Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table. 
61




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
         NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION     
        The following table reflects the participation during 2010 by the Named Executive Officers in three nonqualified deferred compensation
plans offered by the Company. The Deferred Compensation Excess Plan allows eligible employees to defer for a number of years or until retirement from the Company the receipt of base salary and the
portion of their annual incentive compensation paid in cash. The Performance Awards Deferred Compensation Plan allows eligible employees to defer for a number of years or until retirement from the
Company the payout of their performance share or performance unit awards under the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The VIP Excess Plan allows eligible employees to defer until retirement
from the Company the receipt of base salary and annual incentive compensation. With the exception of deferrals of performance shares under the Performance Awards Deferred Compensation Plan, earnings
are credited to the amounts deferred under all three plans based on the returns paid on the investment funds available to participants in 3M's qualified 401(k) plan or a fixed rate of return
based on corporate bond yields (as selected by each participant). Earnings are credited to the deferrals of performance shares under the Performance Awards Deferred Compensation Plan based on the
return on shares of 3M common stock, including reinvested dividends. 



























 
 


2010 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Table 
 


Name



 
Executive
Contributions
in Last FY ($)(1) 
 
Registrant
Contributions
in Last FY ($)(2) 
 
Aggregate
Earnings in
Last FY ($)(3) 
 
Aggregate
Withdrawals/
Distributions ($) 
 
Aggregate
Balance at Last
FYE ($)(4) 
 


 



 George W. Buckley
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 



 VIP Excess Plan
 
 
335,446
 
 
240,035
 
 
215,285
 
 
0
 
 
1,676,333
 


 
 



 Performance Awards Deferred Compensation Plan
 
 
1,813,783
 
 
0
 
 
1,045,065
 
 
0
 
 
8,194,854
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 VIP Excess Plan
 
 
44,485
 
 
28,598
 
 
74,257
 
 
0
 
 
731,023
 


 



 Inge G. Thulin
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 



 VIP Excess Plan
 
 
54,716
 
 
32,830
 
 
4,197
 
 
0
 
 
140,188
 


 Hak Cheol Shin
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 VIP Excess Plan
 
 
25,354
 
 
10,315
 
 
63,903
 
 
0
 
 
567,058
 


 



 Michael A. Kelly
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 



 VIP Excess Plan
 
 
73,385
 
 
37,165
 
 
21,143
 
 
0
 
 
384,417
 


 
 



 Performance Awards Deferred Compensation Plan
 
 
537,098
 
 
0
 
 
16,966
 
 
0
 
 
554,064
 






FOOTNOTES
TO 2010 NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION TABLE 
        (1)   With the exception of amounts contributed during 2010 by Mr. Shin and Mr. Kelly from the payouts of their
annual incentive compensation earned during 2009, all amounts contributed by these individuals during 2010 have been included in the Summary Compensation Table as Salary or Non-Equity
Incentive Plan Compensation earned in 2009 or 2010. Since Mr. Shin and Mr. Kelly were not Named Executive Officers of the Company for 2009, the Summary Compensation Table does not
reflect any of their compensation earned during 2009. 
62



 
Table of Contents
        (2)   All amounts contributed by the Company on behalf of these individuals during 2010 are included in the "All Other
Compensation" column of the Summary Compensation Table. 
        (3)   None of these amounts are included in the Summary Compensation Table as compensation earned in 2010. 
        (4)   Of the amounts reported in this column, $5,742,308 of Mr. Buckley's balance at the end of 2010, $121,925 of
Mr. Campbell's balance at the end of 2010, and $47,520 of Mr. Thulin's balance at the end of 2010 were reported previously as compensation in the Company's Summary Compensation Tables
for prior years.  
 
 
        POTENTIAL PAYMENTS UPON TERMINATION OR CHANGE IN CONTROL     
        The Company has entered into employment agreements with two of the Named Executive Officers that will require it to make payments to
these individuals in the event of the termination of their employment or change in control of the Company. In addition, many of the Company's executive compensation, benefit, and deferred compensation
plans provide the Named Executive Officers with certain rights or the right to receive payments in the event of the termination of their employment or upon a change in control of the Company. The
amounts payable to each of the Named Executive Officers in each situation is reflected in the following table, assuming that each individual's employment had terminated and/or a change in control of
the Company had occurred on December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, Mr. Buckley, Mr. Campbell, and Mr. Thulin were eligible to retire under the Company's pension
plans. 
63




 











Table of Contents 


































 
 


2010 Potential Payments upon Termination or Change in Control Table 
 


Name




 
Triggering Event 
 
Cash
Severance
($)(1) 
 
Outstanding
Performance
Share
Awards ($)(2) 
 
Unvested
Restricted
Stock/RSUs
($)(3) 
 
Unvested
Options
($)(4) 
 
Supplemental
Pension
($)(5) 
 
Life
Insurance
Proceeds
($)(6) 
 
Total
($) 
 






 George W. Buckley
 
  Resignation without Good Reason/Termination for Cause
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 16,154,152
(9)
 
 0
 
 
 16,154,152
 


 


 
  Resignation for Good Reason/Non-Cause Termination
 
 
 9,059,078
(7)
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 16,154,152
(9)
 
 0
 
 
 25,213,230
 


 


 
  Change in Control
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 6,367,387
 
 
 6,872,534
 
 
 4,378,556
 
 
 0
 
 
 17,618,477
 


 


 
  Resignation for Good Reason/Non-Cause Termination within 18 months following Change in Control
 
 
 9,059,078
(7)
 
 2,379,522
 
 
 10,660,122
 
 
 8,605,800
 
 
 16,154,152
(9)
 
 0
 
 
 46,858,674
 


 


 
  Death
 
 
 0
 
 
 4,635,432
 
 
 10,660,122
 
 
 8,605,800
 
 
 16,154,152
 
 
 0
 
 
 40,055,506
 


 


 
  Disability
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 10,660,122
 
 
 8,605,800
 
 
 16,154,152
(9)
 
 0
 
 
 35,420,074
 


 Patrick D. Campbell
 
  Resignation without Good Reason/Termination for Cause
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

5,793,736
(10)
 

0
 
 

5,793,736
 


 
 
  Resignation for Good Reason/Non-Cause Termination
 
 
 1,313,750
(8)
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 5,793,736
(10)
 
 0
 
 
 7,107,486
 


 
 
  Change in Control
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 1,517,586
 
 
 1,904,711
 
 
 1,682,945
 
 
 0
 
 
 5,105,242
 


 
 
  Resignation for Good Reason/Non-Cause Termination within 18 months following Change in Control
 
 
 1,313,750
(8)
 
 578,257
 
 
 2,693,855
 
 
 2,433,348
 
 
 5,793,736
(10)
 
 0
 
 
 12,812,946
 


 
 
  Death
 
 
 0
 
 
 1,126,474
 
 
 2,693,855
 
 
 2,433,348
 
 
 6,008,886
(11)
 
 2,966,024
 
 
 15,228,587
 


 
 
  Disability
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 2,693,855
 
 
 2,433,348
 
 
 5,793,736
(10)
 
 0
 
 
 10,920,939
 






 Inge G. Thulin
 
  Resignation without Good Reason/Termination for Cause
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

4,842,077
(12)
 

0
 
 

4,842,077
 


 


 
  Resignation for Good Reason/Non-Cause Termination
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 4,842,077
(12)
 
 0
 
 
 4,842,077
 


 


 
  Change in Control
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 3,291,913
 
 
 1,433,094
 
 
 3,779,620
 
 
 0
 
 
 8,504,627
 


 


 
  Resignation for Good Reason/Non-Cause Termination within 18 months following Change in Control
 
 
 0
 
 
 416,426
 
 
 4,144,816
 
 
 1,813,352
 
 
 4,842,077
(12)
 
 0
 
 
 11,216,671
 


 


 
  Death
 
 
 0
 
 
 811,220
 
 
 4,144,816
 
 
 1,813,352
 
 
 2,666,297
(13)
 
 1,991,100
 
 
 11,426,785
 


 


 
  Disability
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 4,144,816
 
 
 1,813,352
 
 
 4,842,077
(12)
 
 0
 
 
 10,800,245
 


 Hak Cheol Shin
 
  Resignation without Good Reason/Termination for Cause
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

3,060,670
(14)
 

0
 
 

3,060,670
 


 
 
  Resignation for Good Reason/Non-Cause Termination
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 3,060,670
(14)
 
 0
 
 
 3,060,670
 


 
 
  Change in Control
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 3,884,708
 
 
 1,405,757
 
 
 2,323,093
 
 
 0
 
 
 7,613,558
 


 
 
  Resignation for Good Reason/Non-Cause Termination within 18 months following Change in Control
 
 
 0
 
 
 416,426
 
 
 4,761,775
 
 
 1,842,266
 
 
 3,060,670
(14)
 
 0
 
 
 10,081,137
 


 
 
  Death
 
 
 0
 
 
 811,220
 
 
 4,761,775
 
 
 1,842,266
 
 
 1,738,485
(15)
 
 1,724,406
 
 
 10,878,152
 


 
 
  Disability
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 4,761,775
 
 
 1,842,266
 
 
 3,060,670
(14)
 
 0
 
 
 9,664,711
 






 Michael A. Kelly
 
  Resignation without Good Reason/Termination for Cause
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

0
 
 

3,464,545
(16)
 

0
 
 

3,464,545
 


 


 
  Resignation for Good Reason/Non-Cause Termination
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 3,464,545
(16)
 
 0
 
 
 3,464,545
 


 


 
  Change in Control
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 1,116,463
 
 
 1,075,811
 
 
 2,611,091
 
 
 0
 
 
 4,803,365
 


 


 
  Resignation for Good Reason/Non-Cause Termination within 18 months following Change in Control
 
 
 0
 
 
 416,426
 
 
 2,041,168
 
 
 1,463,164
 
 
 3,464,545
(16)
 
 0
 
 
 7,385,303
 


 


 
  Death
 
 
 0
 
 
 811,220
 
 
 2,041,168
 
 
 1,463,164
 
 
 1,711,380
(17)
 
 1,431,711
 
 
 7,458,643
 


 


 
  Disability
 
 
 0
 
 
 0
 
 
 2,041,168
 
 
 1,463,164
 
 
 3,464,545
(16)
 
 0
 
 
 6,968,877
 


 
 




64



 
Table of Contents
FOOTNOTES TO 2010 POTENTIAL PAYMENTS UPON
TERMINATION OR CHANGE IN CONTROL TABLE 
        (1)   The amounts in this column reflect the amount of cash severance the Company would be obligated to pay these individuals
pursuant to their employment agreements, as described below. 
        (2)   The amounts in this column reflect the target value of performance share awards under the 2008 Long-Term
Incentive Plan for which the three-year performance period has not been completed (adjusted to reflect the closing market price of 3M common stock on December 31, 2010), and which
would be paid upon the occurrence of the respective triggering events in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. 
        (3)   The amounts in this column reflect the value of unvested 3M restricted stock or restricted stock units that would vest
upon the occurrence of the respective triggering events in accordance with the provisions of the Management Stock Ownership Program or the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as applicable.
Share values are based on the closing market price of 3M common stock on December 31, 2010 ($86.30). 
        (4)   The amounts in this column reflect the spread value on December 31, 2010, of unvested,
in-the-money 3M stock options that will vest upon the occurrence of the respective triggering events in accordance with the provisions of the Management Stock Ownership Program
or the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as applicable. Spread values are based on the closing market price of 3M common stock on December 31, 2010 ($86.30). 
        (5)   The amounts in this column reflect the present value of accumulated benefits under 3M's Employee Retirement Income Plan,
3M's Nonqualified Pension Plan, and/or the individual's supplemental retirement arrangement based on such individual's employment agreement that would be paid to, or on behalf of, each individual upon
the occurrence of the respective triggering events. For additional information regarding the terms of the Nonqualified Pension Plan or those individual supplemental retirement arrangements, see the
explanation following the 2010 Pension Benefits Table and the summaries of these employment agreements in the section entitled "Additional Information Regarding the Employment Agreements of the Named
Executive Officers," following the 2010 Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table. Except as noted, all of these amounts would be paid in the form of a single lump-sum cash payment. 
        (6)   The amounts in this column reflect the life insurance proceeds that would be payable to each individual's beneficiary or
beneficiaries pursuant to the universal life insurance policies obtained for them under the Executive Life Insurance Plan. 
        (7)   Of this amount, $9,030,000 would be paid in cash in the form of 24 equal monthly installments of $376,250 each. The
remainder of this amount reflects the amounts the Company would need to pay or incur in order to provide continued medical ($21,912), dental ($2,668), life insurance ($4,080), and accidental
death and disability insurance ($418) benefits for a 24-month period following the termination of Mr. Buckley's employment, as required by his employment agreement. 
        (8)   This amount would be paid in the form of a single lump-sum cash payment. 
        (9)   This amount would be paid in the form of monthly annuity payments over the lifetime of Mr. Buckley (or over the
lifetimes of Mr. Buckley and his designated beneficiary). 
        (10) Of this total, $313,760 would be paid in the form of monthly annuity payments over the lifetime of Mr. Campbell
(or over the lifetimes of Mr. Campbell and his designated beneficiary). 
        (11) Of this total, $313,760 would be paid in the form of monthly annuity payments over the lifetime of Mr. Campbell's
surviving spouse if she elected to receive annuity payments in lieu of a single lump-sum cash payment following Mr. Campbell's death. 
65



 
Table of Contents
        (12) Of this total, $1,062,457 would be paid in the form of monthly annuity payments over the lifetime of Mr. Thulin
(or over the lifetimes of Mr. Thulin and his designated beneficiary). 
        (13) Of this total, $557,378 would be paid in the form of monthly annuity payments over the lifetime of Mr. Thulin's
surviving spouse. 
        (14) This amount would be paid in the form of monthly annuity payments over the lifetime of Mr. Shin (or over the
lifetimes of Mr. Shin and his designated beneficiary). 
        (15) Of this total, $418,950 would be paid in the form of monthly annuity payments over the lifetime of Mr. Shin's
surviving spouse. 
        (16) Of this total, $853,454 would be paid in the form of monthly annuity payments over the lifetime of Mr. Kelly (or
over the lifetimes of Mr. Kelly and his designated beneficiary). 
        (17) Of this total, $456,646 would be paid in the form of monthly annuity payments over the lifetime of Mr. Kelly's
surviving spouse. 
 
 
  Generally Available Compensation and Benefit Plans     
        Each of 3M's Named Executive Officers is eligible to participate in and receive compensation or benefits under several plans of the
Company that provide for certain payments or rights in the event of the death of the individual or a change in control of the Company. All of the Company's deferred compensation programs, the Deferred
Compensation Excess Plan, the Performance Awards Deferred Compensation Plan, and the VIP Excess Plan, provide that the plans will terminate and pay out the account balances of all participants
immediately following a change in control of the Company. The Nonqualified Pension Plan provides that, in the event of a change in control of the Company, the Plan will terminate and pay out the
remaining accrued benefits of all participants in either an immediate lump-sum cash payment or through the purchase of annuity contracts designed to pay the pension benefits that would
otherwise have been paid following the retirement of each participant. The Management Stock Ownership Program and the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan provide that all outstanding stock
options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units with a grant date prior to February 9, 2010, will immediately vest in full upon a change in control of the Company. All of these plans
define a change in control of the Company as an event that satisfies the requirements of the applicable regulations under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. 
        The
amounts shown above for each of the Named Executive Officers do not include payments and benefits generally provided on a non-discriminatory basis to all similarly
situated salaried employees of the Company upon the termination of their employment with the Company, including: (a) accrued salary; (b) annual incentive earned with respect to completed
performance periods; (c) unused vacation benefits; (d) retiree welfare benefits provided to substantially all of the Company's U.S. employees, including retiree medical and dental
benefits; (e) distributions of account balances under the Company's qualified 401(k) plan; and (f) distribution of account balances in 3M's nonqualified deferred compensation plans, as
described in the 2010 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Table. 
 George W. Buckley  
        Mr. Buckley's employment agreement with the Company provides that in the event the Company terminates his employment without
Cause or if he terminates his employment with Good Reason, he would receive: (a) cash severance equal to two times the sum of his annual base salary and target annual bonus payable in the form
of 24 equal monthly installments (or in the form of an immediate lump sum, subject to a six-month delay if required under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, if the
termination occurs within two years following a Change of Control of the Company); (b) a pro rata portion of the annual bonus that he would otherwise have earned for the year in which his
employment so terminates; and (c) continued welfare benefits for the period that cash severance benefits are 
66



 
Table of Contents

payable.
No severance benefits (other than accrued salary, bonus, and benefits) are payable in the event of the termination of Mr. Buckley's employment by the Company for Cause or by
Mr. Buckley without Good Reason. In the event of the termination of Mr. Buckley's employment due to his death or disability, no severance benefits are payable (other than accrued salary,
bonus, and benefits, including the supplemental retirement benefits provided under the agreement) other than a pro rata portion of the annual bonus he would otherwise have earned for the year in which
his employment so terminates. If any payment or other benefit provided to Mr. Buckley pursuant to his employment agreement would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of
the Internal Revenue Code, Mr. Buckley would be entitled to receive a tax gross-up payment with which to pay such tax and the additional taxes payable as a result of such payment.
As a condition to receiving any cash severance, pro rata annual bonus, or supplemental retirement benefits, Mr. Buckley is required to sign and deliver to the Company a standard release of
claims. In his employment agreement with the Company and as confirmed in the release of claims, Mr. Buckley agrees that for a period of two years following the termination of his employment he
will: (1) neither employ nor seek to employ any employee of the Company or encourage them to leave the Company, and (2) neither acquire an ownership interest in or perform certain
services for a competitor of the Company. 
        For
purposes of Mr. Buckley's employment agreement, Cause means any of the following: (i) his commission of a felony or misdemeanor involving fraud, dishonesty, or moral
turpitude; (ii) his material breach of such employment agreement; (iii) willful or intentional material misconduct by Mr. Buckley in the performance of his duties;
(iv) willful and intentional failure by Mr. Buckley to materially comply with a specific, written direction of the Board of Directors that is consistent with normal business practice and
not inconsistent with his responsibilities under such employment agreement; (v) a material violation of the Company's conflict of interest policy; (vi) a material violation of any
Company policy that would be grounds for the immediate dismissal of any senior executive of the Company; or (vii) an order or determination of any court, administrative agency, or other entity
that has the effect of prohibiting Mr. Buckley from performing his responsibilities under such employment agreement. For purposes of Mr. Buckley's employment agreement, Good Reason means
any of the following (unless he agrees in writing that a specific event shall not be Good Reason): (i) the Company's material breach of his employment agreement; (ii) the Company's
failure to assign his employment agreement to a successor of the Company or such successor's failure to explicitly assume and agree to be bound by such agreement; (iii) a requirement that
Mr. Buckley be principally based at any office or location more than 30 miles from the Company's current headquarters in St. Paul, Minnesota; or (iv) upon or following a Change of
Control of the Company, the failure to nominate and elect Mr. Buckley to serve as the Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board, or most senior executive officer of the Company or its
top-tier parent entity. For purposes of Mr. Buckley's employment agreement, a Change of Control of the Company means any of the following: (i) any person becomes the owner of
20 percent or more of the voting securities of the Company; (ii) the members of the Board of Directors of the Company as of December 6, 2005, and their approved successors fail to
constitute at least 50 percent of the members of such Board of Directors; (iii) a merger, consolidation, or reorganization involving the Company if the beneficial owners of the Company's
voting securities immediately before such transaction are not expected to own more than 50 percent of the voting power of such voting securities in the corporation resulting from such
transaction; (iv) a plan or agreement for the sale or other disposition of substantially all of the assets of the Company (other than to an entity more than 50 percent owned by the
Company or an entity more than 50 percent owned by the beneficial owners of the voting securities of the Company immediately before the sale or other disposition); or (v) approval of a
plan of liquidation by the stockholders of the Company; provided, however, that for purposes of determining whether shares of 3M common stock or other remuneration are to be delivered to
Mr. Buckley upon a Change of Control with respect to the restricted stock units or performance units granted to him pursuant to his employment agreement and for purposes of determining whether
the cash severance described above shall be paid in a lump sum instead of installments on account of a termination of his employment 
67



 
Table of Contents

without
Cause or for Good Reason upon or prior to the second anniversary of a Change of Control, there shall not be a Change of Control unless the event that would otherwise constitute a Change of
Control satisfies the requirements of the applicable regulations under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. 
 Patrick D. Campbell  
        Mr. Campbell's employment agreement with the Company provides that in the event the Company terminates his employment without
Cause or if he terminates his employment with Good Reason, he would receive: (a) cash severance equal to one times the sum of his annual base salary and target annual profit sharing or annual
incentive if such termination occurs more than five years but no more than ten years following his employment commencement date, and (b) a period of two years following the termination date in
which to exercise the stock options granted to him at the time his employment commenced and the stock options he received as his annual stock option grant for 2002. No severance benefits (other than
accrued salary, profit sharing or annual incentive, and benefits) are payable in the event of the termination of Mr. Campbell's employment by the Company for Cause or by Mr. Campbell
without Good Reason. In the event of the termination of Mr. Campbell's employment due to his death or disability, no severance benefits (other than accrued salary, profit sharing or annual
incentive, and benefits, including the supplemental retirement benefits provided under the agreement) are payable. If any payment or other benefit provided to Mr. Campbell pursuant to his
employment agreement would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code, Mr. Campbell would be entitled to receive a tax gross-up payment
with which to pay such tax and the additional taxes payable as a result of such payment. As a condition to receiving any cash severance, Mr. Campbell is required to sign and deliver to the
Company a standard release of claims. 
        For
purposes of Mr. Campbell's employment agreement, Cause means any of the following: (i) his indictment on or commission of a felony or misdemeanor involving fraud,
dishonesty, or moral turpitude; (ii) his material breach of such employment agreement; (iii) willful or intentional material misconduct by Mr. Campbell in the performance of his
duties; or (iv) willful or intentional failure by Mr. Campbell to materially comply with a specific, written direction of the Chief Executive Officer that is consistent with normal
business practice and with his responsibilities under such employment agreement. For purposes of Mr. Campbell's employment agreement, Good Reason means any of the following (unless he agrees in
writing that a specific event shall not be Good Reason): (i) the Company reduces his annual planned cash compensation by more than 15 percent, (ii) his relocation to a primary
work site located more than 50 miles from his then current work site, or (iii) his reassignment to a position having primary responsibilities which are significantly less than those of his
immediate previous position. 
        As
described above, the employment agreements that the Company has entered into with Mr. Buckley and Mr. Campbell require the Company to provide them with tax
gross-up payments in the event that any payments or other benefits provided to them under their agreements become subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal
Revenue Code as a result of a change in control of the Company. The purpose of such tax gross-up payments would be to give each individual sufficient cash with which to pay such excise tax
and the additional income and other taxes payable as a result of such payment. The Company does not intend to include such "excise tax gross-up payment" provisions in future employment
agreements or arrangements it may establish with its executives. 
68




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION     
        The members of the Compensation Committee are named in the preceding section. No members of the Compensation Committee were officers or
employees of 3M or any of its subsidiaries during the year, were formerly 3M officers (except that Robert S. Morrison served as interim Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer from
June 30, 2005, to December 6, 2005), or had any relationship otherwise requiring disclosure. 
 
 
  AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT     
        The role of the Audit Committee includes assisting the Board of Directors in its oversight of the Company's financial reporting
process. In performing this oversight function, the Audit Committee has: 


•Reviewed and discussed the audited consolidated financial statements with management, which has primary responsibility for
the financial statements;   
•Discussed with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), the Company's independent registered public accounting firm, the
matters required to be discussed by the statement on Auditing Standards No. 61, as amended (AICPA, Professional Standards, Vol.1, AU Section 380), as adopted by the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board ("PCAOB") in Rule 3200T; and   
•Received the written disclosures and the letter from PwC required by applicable requirements of the PCAOB regarding PwC's
communications with the audit committee concerning independence, and has discussed with PwC its independence. 

        Based
upon the review and discussions described above, the Committee recommended to the Board of Directors that the audited consolidated financial statements be included in the Company's
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, for filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Submitted
by the Audit Committee 
Herbert L.
Henkel, Chair
Linda G. Alvarado
Michael L. Eskew
W. James Farrell 
 
 
  Audit Committee Policy on Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     
        The Audit Committee is responsible for appointing and overseeing the work of the independent registered public accounting firm
("Independent Accounting Firm"). The Audit Committee has established the following procedures for the pre-approval of all audit and permissible non-audit services provided by
the Independent Accounting Firm. 
        Before
engagement of the Independent Accounting Firm for the next year's audit, the Independent Accounting Firm will submit to the Audit Committee for approval a detailed description of
services it expects to render to the Company during that year for each of the following categories of services: 
        1.     Audit
services include audit work performed in the preparation of consolidated financial statements, as well as work that generally only the Independent Accounting Firm
can reasonably be expected to provide, including comfort letters, statutory audits, and attest services and consultation regarding financial accounting and/or reporting standards. 
        2.     Audit
related services are for assurance and related services that are traditionally performed by the Independent Accounting Firm, including due diligence related to
mergers and acquisitions, employee benefit plan audits, and special procedures required to meet certain regulatory requirements. 
69



 
Table of Contents
        3.     Tax
services include all services performed by the Independent Accounting Firm's tax personnel except those services specifically related to the audit of the financial
statements, and includes fees in the areas of tax compliance, tax planning, and tax advice. 
        4.     Other
services are those services not captured in the other categories. 
        Before
engagement, the Audit Committee pre-approves these services by category of service. The fees are budgeted and the Audit Committee requires the Independent Accounting
Firm to report actual fees versus the budget periodically throughout the year by category of service. During the year, circumstances may arise when it may become necessary to engage the Independent
Accounting Firm for additional services not contemplated in the original pre-approval. In those instances, the Audit Committee requires specific pre-approval before engaging
the Independent Accounting Firm. 
        The
Audit Committee has delegated pre-approval authority to the chair of the Committee. The chair must report, for informational purposes only, any pre-approval
decisions to the Audit Committee at its next scheduled meeting. 
 
 
  FEES OF THE INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     
        The following table represents fees for professional services rendered by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the audit of the
Company's consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, and fees billed for other services rendered by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP during those periods
(amounts in millions). 
 Audit and Non-Audit Fees ($ in millions)  

















 
 
2009 
 
2010 
 


 Audit Fees:(1)
 
$
11.0
 
$
11.9
 


 Audit Related Fees:(2)
 
 
0.7
 
 
0.8
 


 Tax Fees:(3)
 
 
1.2
 
 
1.0
 


 All Other Fees:(4)
 
 
0.0
 
 
0.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
12.9
 
$
14.3
 




        (1)   Audit fees consisted of fees for audit work and review services, as well as work generally only the independent
registered public accounting firm can reasonably be expected to provide, such as statutory audits, comfort letters, consents, and assistance with and review of documents filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. 
        (2)   Audit related fees consisted of fees principally for financial due diligence, audits of employee benefit plans, and other
attest services. 
        (3)   Tax fees consisted principally of tax planning and compliance. 
        (4)   All other fees consisted of other permissible services primarily related to enterprise resource planning systems. 
70




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBMISSION OF STOCKHOLDER PROPOSALS  FOR NEXT YEAR'S ANNUAL MEETING     
        In order for a stockholder proposal to be considered for inclusion in 3M's Proxy Statement for next year's Annual Meeting, our
Corporate Secretary must receive the proposal no later than 5:00 p.m. Central Time on November 24, 2011. Such proposals must be sent via registered, certified, or express mail (or other
means that allows the stockholder to determine when the proposal was received by the Corporate Secretary) to: Gregg M. Larson, Deputy General Counsel and Secretary, 3M Company,
3M Center, Building 220-13E-34, St. Paul, MN 55144-1000. Such proposals must contain the information required under 3M's Bylaws, a copy
of which is available at www.3M.com under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance, and also must comply with the SEC's regulations regarding the
inclusion of stockholder proposals in Company sponsored proxy materials, such as the stockholder continuing
to own a minimum number of shares until the Annual Meeting and appearing in person or through an authorized representative at the meeting to present the proposal. 
        Alternatively,
stockholders intending to present a proposal at next year's Annual Meeting without having it included in the Company's Proxy Statement must comply with the requirements
set forth in the Company's Bylaws. Our Bylaws require, among other things, that our Corporate Secretary receive written notice from the stockholder no earlier than the close of business on
January 11, 2012, and no later than the close of business on February 10, 2012. The notice must contain the information required by our Bylaws. 
        Proposals
received by the Corporate Secretary after the dates mentioned will not be included in the Proxy Statement or acted upon at next year's Annual Meeting. 
By
Order of the Board of Directors. 



GREGG
M. LARSON 
Deputy General Counsel and Secretary
71















Table of Contents 

















         Attendance Card 
 
         Attendance Card 
 
 





 



 

 


 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders
 
Annual Meeting
of Stockholders
 

 




  
 


  
 
 


May 10, 2011
RiverCentre
175 West Kellogg Blvd.
St. Paul, Minnesota 55102
 
 May 10, 2011
RiverCentre
175 West Kellogg Blvd.
St. Paul, Minnesota 55102
 
 


 This is your ticket to the 2011 Annual Meeting. Please show it upon arrival. Annual Meeting activities begin at 9:00 a.m. with refreshments. The meeting starts at 10:00 a.m. PLEASE
NOTE THAT THE 3M STORE, LUNCH, GIFT BAGS, AND PRODUCT DISPLAYS ARE NO LONGER PART OF THE MEETING.
 
This is your ticket to the 2011 Annual Meeting. Please show it upon arrival. Annual Meeting activities begin at 9:00 a.m. with refreshments. The meeting starts at 10:00 a.m. PLEASE
NOTE THAT THE 3M STORE, LUNCH, GIFT BAGS, AND PRODUCT DISPLAYS ARE NO LONGER PART OF THE MEETING.
 

 


 The meeting will be held in the Roy Wilkins Auditorium. Hosts and hostesses will show you the way after you enter the RiverCentre.
 
The meeting will be held in the Roy Wilkins Auditorium. Hosts and hostesses will show you the way after you enter the RiverCentre.
 

 


 Since parking space is limited, you are urged to consider carpooling or public transportation.
 
Since parking space is limited, you are urged to consider carpooling or public transportation.
 



















THIS PROXY CARD
  IS VALID ONLY WHEN SIGNED AND DATED. KEEP THIS PORTION FOR YOUR RECORDS
  DETACH AND RETURN THIS PORTION ONLY TO VOTE, MARK BLOCKS BELOW IN BLUE OR
  BLACK INK AS FOLLOWS: Signature [PLEASE SIGN WITHIN BOX] Date Signature
  (Joint Owners) Date 3M COMPANY M29462-P05549 For Against Abstain 3M CENTER
  BLDG. 220-9E-02 ST. PAUL, MN 55144-1000 For Against Abstain For address
  changes and/or comments, please check this box and write them on the back
  where indicated. 4. An advisory vote on the frequency of advisory votes on
  executive compensation. 2. To ratify the appointment of
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 3M's independent registered public accounting
  firm. 5. Stockholder proposal on political contributions. 1. To elect ten
  members to the Board of Directors, each for a term of one year. Nominees:
  VOTE BY INTERNET - www.proxyvote.com Use the Internet to transmit your voting
  instructions and for electronic delivery of information up until 10:59 P.M.
  Central Daylight Time on May 9, 2011*. Have your proxy card in hand when you
  access the Web site and follow the instructions to obtain your records and to
  create an electronic voting instruction form. VOTE BY PHONE - 1-800-690-6903
  Use any touch-tone telephone to transmit your voting instructions up until
  10:59 P.M. Central Daylight Time on May 9, 2011*. Have your proxy card in
  hand when you call and then follow the instructions. VOTE BY MAIL Mark, sign,
  and date your proxy card and return it in the postage-paid envelope we have
  provided or return it to 3M Company, c/o Broadridge, 51 Mercedes Way,
  Edgewood, NY 11717, so that it is received by May 9, 2011*. ELECTRONIC
  DELIVERY OF FUTURE PROXY MATERIALS If you would like to reduce the costs
  incurred by 3M Company in mailing proxy materials, you can consent to receiving
  all future proxy statements, proxy cards, and annual reports electronically
  via e-mail or the Internet. To sign up for electronic delivery, please follow
  the instructions above to vote using the Internet and, when prompted,
  indicate that you agree to receive or access proxy materials electronically
  in future years. *Up until 10:59 p.m. Central Daylight Time on May 5, 2011
  for participants in 3M's Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock
  Ownership Plan and the 3M Savings Plan. The Board of Directors recommends you
  vote FOR the following proposals 1, 2, and 3: 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
  0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Year 2 Years 3
  Years Abstain Vote on Directors 1i. Aulana L. Peters 1d. Michael L. Eskew 1b.
  George W. Buckley 1e. W. James Farrell 1f. Herbert L. Henkel 1g. Edward M.
  Liddy 1h. Robert S. Morrison 1a. Linda G. Alvarado 1c. Vance D. Coffman 1j.
  Robert J. Ulrich 3. An advisory vote on executive compensation. The Board of
  Directors recommends you vote AGAINST the following proposal: NOTE: Such
  other business as may properly come before the meeting or any adjournment or
  postponement thereof. Please sign exactly as your name(s) appear(s) hereon.
  When signing as attorney, executor, administrator, or other fiduciary, please
  give full title as such. Joint owners should each sign personally. All
  holders must sign. If a corporation or partnership, please sign in full
  corporate or partnership name, by authorized officer. The Board of Directors
  recommends a vote for a frequency of "1 Year": For Against Abstain 




 











Address
  Changes/Comments:
  ______________________________________________________________________________
  ________________________________________________________________________________________________________
  (If you noted any Address Changes/Comments above, please mark corresponding
  box on the reverse side.) 3M COMPANY The Board of Directors solicits this
  proxy for use at the Annual Meeting on Tuesday, May 10, 2011. The
  stockholder(s) whose signature(s) appear(s) on the reverse side of this proxy
  card hereby appoint(s) George W. Buckley, Patrick D. Campbell, David W.
  Meline, and Gregg M. Larson or any of them, each with full power of
  substitution, as proxies, to vote all shares of common stock in 3M Company
  which the stockholder(s) would be entitled to vote on all matters which may
  properly come before the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and any
  adjournments thereof. THE PROXIES SHALL VOTE SUBJECT TO THE DIRECTION
  INDICATED ON THE REVERSE SIDE OF THIS CARD. THE PROXIES ARE AUTHORIZED TO
  VOTE IN THEIR DISCRETION UPON OTHER BUSINESS AS MAY PROPERLY COME BEFORE THE
  MEETING AND ANY ADJOURNMENTS OR POSTPONEMENTS THEREOF. THE PROXIES WILL VOTE
  AS THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS WHERE A CHOICE IS NOT SPECIFIED. FOR PARTICIPANTS
  IN 3M'S VOLUNTARY INVESTMENT PLAN AND EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN (VIP),
  AND THE 3M SAVINGS PLAN: In accordance with the terms of the VIP and Savings
  Plan, shares allocated to the respective accounts in these plans on the
  record date will be voted by the trustee, State Street Bank and Trust
  Company, in accordance with the instructions indicated on the reverse side of
  this card, and in accordance with the judgment of the trustee upon other
  business as may properly come before the meeting and any adjournments or
  postponements thereof. In addition, participants in the VIP may instruct
  State Street (as VIP trustee) how to vote a proportionate number of the 3M
  shares held by the VIP that have been allocated to accounts of participants
  for which no instructions are received. If no instructions are provided or if
  this card is not received on or before May 5, 2011, shares held in the
  respective accounts in the Savings Plan will be voted by the trustee as
  directed by any one of the named proxies designated above. If no instructions
  are provided or if this card is not received on or before May 5, 2011, shares
  held in the respective accounts in the VIP will be voted by the trustee in
  the same proportion that the other participants in the VIP direct the trustee
  to vote shares in the VIP accounts. NOTICE OF 2011 ANNUAL MEETING OF
  STOCKHOLDERS Tuesday, May 10, 2011, 10:00 a.m. Central Daylight Time
  (Continued, and must be signed and dated on the other side) M29463-P05549
  Important Notice Regarding the Availability of Proxy Materials for the Annual
  Meeting: The Notice and Proxy Statement and Annual Report are available at
  www.proxyvote.com. 




 
 






