
DEF 14A
1
mmm030619s1_def14a.htm
3M DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT

3M Definitive Proxy Statement





W. James McNerney, Jr. Chairman of
the Board and Chief Executive Officer  


 

March 26, 2003 

Dear Stockholder: 

        I
am pleased to invite you to attend 3M’s Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which
will be held on Tuesday, May 13, 2003, at 10 a.m., at the RiverCentre, 175 West Kellogg
Boulevard, St. Paul, Minnesota. 

        Details
regarding admission to the meeting and the business to be conducted are more fully
described in the accompanying Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement. I will report
on Company operations and discuss our plans for growth. We also will leave time for your
questions and comments. 

        The
fine attendance of our stockholders at Annual Meetings over the years has been very
helpful in maintaining good communications and understanding. We sincerely hope you will
be able to be with us. Your attendance cards to the Annual Meeting are located on the
back cover of this proxy statement.  

        Your
vote is important. Whether or not you plan to attend the Annual Meeting, I hope you will
vote as soon as possible. You may vote on the Internet, by telephone, or by completing
and mailing a traditional proxy card. Please review the instructions on the proxy card
regarding each of these voting options. 

        Thank
you for your ongoing support of 3M. 

Sincerely, 





2003 ANNUAL MEETING OF
STOCKHOLDERS  

NOTICE OF ANNUAL
MEETING AND PROXY STATEMENT  

TABLE OF CONTENTS  





Notice of Annual Meeting of Stockholders 
iii  

Questions and Answers about the Proxy Materials and the Annual Meeting 
1  

  Why am I receiving these materials?
1  

  What is the purpose of the Annual Meeting?
1  

  Who may attend the Annual Meeting?
1  

  How can I obtain an admission ticket for the Annual Meeting?
1  

  What information is contained in these materials?
1  

  What is 3M’s voting recommendation?
1  

  What shares owned by me can be voted?
1  

  What is the difference between holding shares as a stockholder of record and as a

    beneficial owner?
2  

  How can I vote my shares?
2  

  Can I change my vote?
3  

  How are votes counted?
3  

  How many votes are needed for the proposals to pass?
3  

  What does it mean if I receive more than one set of proxy materials?
3  

  How do I receive only one set of proxy materials for future meetings?
3  

  How do I obtain a separate set of proxy materials if I share an address with other 3M

    stockholders?
4  

  Where can I find the voting results of the meeting?
4  

  What class of shares is entitled to be voted?
4  

  What is the quorum requirement for the meeting?
4  

  Who will count the vote?
4  

  Is my vote confidential?
4  

  Who will bear the cost of soliciting votes for the meeting?
5  

  Does 3M offer stockholders the option of viewing Annual Reports to Stockholders and Proxy

    Statements via the Internet?
5  

  How do I elect this option?
5  

  What happens if additional proposals are presented at the meeting?
5  

  Who is the transfer agent and how can I contact them?
5  

Governance of the Company 
6  

  Corporate Governance Guidelines
6  

  Assessment of Director Independence
6  

  3M Business Conduct Policies
6  






i 








Board Structure and Committee Membership 
7  

  Audit Committee
7  

  Compensation Committee
8  

  Nominating and Governance Committee
8  

  Public Issues Committee
9  

Compensation of Non-Employee Directors 
9  

Proposals To Be Voted On 
10  

  Proposal No. 1 -- Election of Directors
10  

  Proposal No. 2 -- Ratification of Independent Auditors
13  

  Proposal No. 3 -- Stockholder Proposal
13  

Common Stock Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers 
15  

  Beneficial Ownership Table
15  

Security Ownership of More Than 5 Percent Shareholders 
16  

Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance 
16  

Executive Compensation 
17  

  Summary Compensation Table
17  

  Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year
19  

  Aggregated Option Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End Option Values .
20  

  Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards Table
21  

  Employment Contract, Termination of Employment, and Change-in-Control Arrangements
21  

  Retirement Benefits
22  

Report of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on 

  Executive Compensation 
24  

Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation 
27  

Report of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors 
27  

Independent Auditor’s Fees 
28  

Stock Performance Graph 
29  

Requirements for Submission of Shareholder Proposals for Next Year’s Annual Meeting 
30  

Appendix A — Corporate Governance Guidelines
A-1  

Appendix B — Audit Committee Charter
B-1  

Appendix C — Compensation Committee Charter
C-1  

Appendix D — Nominating and Governance Committee Charter
D-1  

Appendix E — Public Issues Committee Charter
E-1  







ii 











3M Company
3M Center, St. Paul, Minnesota 55144  

NOTICE OF ANNUAL
MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS  





TIME
10:00 a.m. on Tuesday, May 13, 2003
 

PLACE
RiverCentre175 West Kellogg BoulevardSt. Paul, Minnesota
 

ITEMS OF BUSINESS

(1)    To elect directors to a 3-year term.
(2)    To ratify the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as
3M’s         independent
auditors. (3)    To vote on one stockholder proposal if
properly presented at the meeting.(4)    To transact
such other business as may properly come before the         
                    Annual Meeting and any adjournment or postponement.
 

RECORD DATE
You are entitled to vote if you were a stockholder of record at the close ofbusiness on Friday, March 14, 2003.
 

ANNUAL REPORT
Our 2002 Annual Report, which is not part of the proxy soliciting materials,is enclosed.
 

MEETING ADMISSION
Two cutout admission tickets are included on the back cover of this proxystatement.
 

VOTING BY PROXY
Please submit a
proxy as soon as possible so that your shares can be votedat the meeting in
accordance with your instructions. You may submit yourproxy(1)    Over the
Internet,(2)    By telephone, or(3)    By mail.
For specific instructions, please refer to the QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS        
on page 1 of this proxy statement and the voting instructions on the proxy  
card.








By
Order of the Board of Directors 

 

GREGG
M. LARSON Assistant General Counsel
and Secretary  

THIS PROXY STATEMENT AND PROXY CARD
ARE BEING DISTRIBUTED ON OR ABOUT MARCH 26, 2003. 

iii 











QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
ABOUT THE PROXY MATERIALS AND THE ANNUAL MEETING  

        Q:
WHY AM I RECEIVING THESE MATERIALS?  

        A:
The Board of Directors (the “Board”) of 3M Company ("3M” or the “Company”)
is soliciting proxies for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. You are receiving a proxy
statement because you own shares of 3M common stock that entitle you to vote at the
meeting. By use of a proxy, you can vote whether or not you attend the meeting. The proxy
statement describes the matters we would like you to vote on and provides information on
those matters so you can make an informed decision. 

        Q:
WHAT IS THE PURPOSE OF THE ANNUAL MEETING?  

        A:
The purpose of the Annual Meeting is to elect directors and to conduct the business
described in the Notice of Annual Meeting.  

        Q:
WHO MAY ATTEND THE ANNUAL MEETING?  

        A:
Only stockholders are invited to attend the meeting. An admission ticket or proof of
ownership of 3M stock, along with personal identification, must be presented in order to
be admitted to the Annual Meeting. If you are a shareholder of record, your admission
ticket is on the back of this proxy statement. If your shares are held in the name of a
bank, broker or other holder of record, you must bring a brokerage statement or other
proof of ownership with you to the Annual Meeting, or obtain an admission ticket in
advance. No cameras, recording equipment, electronic devices, large bags, briefcases, or
packages will be permitted in the Annual Meeting.  

        Q:
HOW CAN I OBTAIN AN ADMISSION TICKET FOR THE MEETING?  

        A:
Two cutout admission tickets are included on the back of this proxy statement. Tickets
are also available on the Internet voting site.  

        Q:
WHAT INFORMATION IS CONTAINED IN THESE MATERIALS?  

        A:
The information included in this proxy statement relates to proposals to be voted on at
the meeting (if properly presented), voting process, compensation of directors and our
most highly paid officers, and other required information. Our Annual Report, which is
not part of the proxy soliciting material, is enclosed in this mailing and is also available
to those accessing the proxy statement via the Internet.  

        Q:
WHAT IS 3M’S VOTING RECOMMENDATION?  

        A:
The following proposals are scheduled to be voted on at the meeting. 3M’s Board
recommends that you vote your shares for each proposal as indicated below.  







Proposals: 
3M’S Voting Recommendation: 



 1. The election of directors for a 3-year term
“FOR”each nomineeto the Board



 2. The ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers
“FOR”

     LLP as 3M’s independent auditors



 3. Consideration of a stockholder proposal relating to stockholder
“AGAINST”

     approval of a shareholder rights plan, if it is properly presented

     at the meeting








        Q:
WHAT SHARES OWNED BY ME CAN BE VOTED? 

        A:
All shares owned by you as of March 14, 2003, the RECORD DATE, may be voted by you. These
shares include those (1) held directly in your name as the STOCKHOLDER OF RECORD,
including shares purchased through 3M’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan and 3M’s
General Employees Stock Purchase Plan and (2) held for you as the BENEFICIAL OWNER
through a stockbroker, bank, trustee, or other nominee, including those shares acquired
through 3M’s Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan and the 3M
Savings Plan. 


1  











        Participants
in 3M’s Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M
Savings Plan may direct the trustee how to vote the shares allocated to their account by
following the voting instructions contained on the proxy card. Participants in the
Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan may also direct the trustee
how to vote a proportionate number of allocated shares of common stock for which it has
not received direction, and shares not allocated to individual participant accounts by
following the same voting instructions. If you fail to direct the trustee how to vote
your shares by following these voting instructions, the trustee will vote your shares as
described in the voting instructions. 

        Q:
WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN HOLDING SHARES AS A STOCKHOLDER OF RECORD AND AS A
BENEFICIAL OWNER? 

        A:
Most 3M stockholders hold their shares through a stockbroker, bank, trustee, or other
nominee rather than directly in their own name. As summarized below, there are some
distinctions between shares held of record and those owned beneficially: 






  
•
  
STOCKHOLDER
OF RECORD — If your shares are registered directly in your name with 3M’s
Transfer Agent, Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, you are considered the
stockholder of record of those shares and these proxy materials are being sent
directly to you by 3M. As the stockholder of record, you have the right to grant
your voting proxy directly to 3M or to vote in person at the meeting.







  
• 
  
BENEFICIAL
OWNER — If your shares are held in a stock brokerage account, by a bank or other
nominee, you are considered the beneficial owner of shares held in street name and these
proxy materials are being forwarded to you by your broker or nominee who is considered
the stockholder of record of those shares. As the beneficial owner, you have the right to
direct your broker on how to vote and are also invited to attend the meeting. However,
since you are not the stockholder of record, you may not vote these shares in person at
the meeting. Your broker or nominee is obligated to provide you with a voting instruction
card for you to use. If your shares are held in your account in the 3M Voluntary
Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M Savings Plan, you are
considered the beneficial owner of these shares and the trustee of the plans is the
stockholder of record. As the beneficial owner, you have the right to direct the trustee
on how to vote and are also invited to attend the meeting. However, since you are not
stockholder of record, you may not vote these shares in person at the meeting.  








        Q:
HOW CAN I VOTE MY SHARES? 

        A:
If you hold shares directly as the stockholder of record, you may vote by granting a
proxy or, for shares held beneficially in street name, by submitting voting instructions
to your broker or nominee. If you own shares beneficially as a participant in the 3M
Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M Savings Plan, you
may vote by submitting voting instructions to the trustee. In most instances, you will be
able to do this over the Internet, by telephone, or by mail. Please refer to the summary
instructions below and those included on your proxy card or, for shares held in street
name, the voting instruction card included by your broker or nominee. 

        The
Internet and telephone voting procedures are designed to authenticate stockholders by use
of a control number and to allow you to confirm that your instructions have been properly
recorded. If you vote by telephone or on the Internet, you do not need to return your
proxy card. Telephone and Internet voting facilities for shareholders of record will be
available 24 hours a day, and will close at 10:00 p.m. on the day before the Annual
Meeting. Participants in 3M’s Voluntary Investment Plan, Employee Stock Ownership
Plan, and the 3M Savings Plan may instruct the trustee how to vote their shares via the
Internet, by telephone, or by signing and returning the proxy card by 5:00 p.m. (Central
Time) on May 8, 2003. 





  
•
  
BY INTERNET
— www.eproxy.com/mmm — If you have Internet access, you may submit
your proxy from any location in the world 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Have
your proxy card in hand when you access the Web site. You will be prompted to
enter your 3-digit  








2 









  

company
number and a 7-digit control number (these numbers are located          on the proxy
card) to create an electronic ballot. 






  
       •  
  
BY
TELEPHONE -- 1-800-240-6326 -- If you live in the United States,          you may use any
touch-tone telephone to vote your proxy 24 hours a          day, 7 days a week. Have your
proxy card in hand when you call. You          will be prompted to enter your 3-digit
company number and a 7-digit          control number (these numbers are located on the
proxy card). Follow          the recorded instructions. 






  
       •  
  
BY
MAIL -- You may do this by signing your proxy card or, for shares          held in street
name, the voting instruction card included by your          broker or nominee and mailing
it in the enclosed, postage-paid,          addressed envelope. If you provide specific
voting instructions, your          shares will be voted as you instruct. If you sign, but
do not provide          instructions, your shares will be voted as described below in
“HOW ARE          VOTES COUNTED?” Mark, sign, and date your proxy card and
return it in          the postage paid envelope provided so that it is received by May
12,          2003. 




        Q:
CAN I CHANGE MY VOTE? 

        A:
You may change your proxy instructions at any time prior to the vote at the Annual
Meeting. For shares held directly in your name, you may accomplish this by granting a new
proxy or by voting in person at the Annual Meeting. For shares held beneficially by you,
you may change your vote by submitting new voting instructions to your broker or nominee. 

        Q:
HOW ARE VOTES COUNTED? 

        A:
In the election of directors, you may vote “FOR” all of the nominees or your
vote may be “WITHHELD” from one or more of the nominees. For the other
proposals, you may vote “FOR,” “AGAINST,” or “ABSTAIN.” If
you “ABSTAIN,” it has the same effect as a vote “AGAINST.” If you
sign your proxy card or broker voting instruction card with no further instructions, your
shares will be voted in accordance with the recommendations of the Board. Shares held in
your account in the 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the
3M Savings Plan will be voted by the trustee as described on page 1 in “WHAT SHARES
OWNED BY ME CAN BE VOTED?” 

        Q:
HOW MANY VOTES ARE NEEDED FOR THE PROPOSALS TO PASS? 

        A:
The nominees for election as directors at the Annual Meeting will be elected by a
plurality of the votes of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the
meeting and entitled to vote. This means that the director nominee with the most votes
for a particular slot is elected for that slot. Only votes “FOR” or “AGAINST” affect
the outcome. Abstentions are not counted for purposes of the election of directors. 

        All
other proposals require the affirmative “FOR” vote of a majority of those
shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote. If
you are a beneficial owner and do not provide the stockholder of record with voting
instructions, your shares may constitute broker non-votes, as described in “WHAT IS
THE QUORUM REQUIREMENT FOR THE MEETING?” on page 4. In tabulating the voting result
for any particular proposal, shares that constitute broker non-votes are not considered
entitled to vote on that proposal. 

        The
stockholder proposal is presented as a request to the Board to take action. Affirmative
votes for this proposal will inform the Board about the level of interest in this
proposal. 

        Q:
WHAT DOES IT MEAN IF I RECEIVE MORE THAN ONE SET OF PROXY MATERIALS? 

        A:
It means your shares are registered differently or are in more than one account. Please
provide voting instructions for all proxy and voting instruction cards you receive. 

        Q:
HOW DO I RECEIVE ONLY ONE SET OF PROXY MATERIALS FOR FUTURE MEETINGS? 

        A:
If you and other stockholders of record with whom you share an address currently receive
multiple copies of Annual Reports and/or proxy statements, or if you hold stock in more
than one account and you wish to receive only one copy of the Annual Report or proxy
statement for your 

3 








household, please contact our
transfer agent, Wells Fargo Shareowner Services at 1-800-401-1952 (U.S.), 651-450-4064
(outside the U.S.), www.wellsfargo.com/shareownerservices, or in writing to 161 North
Concord Exchange, South St. Paul, MN 55075.  

        We
have adopted a procedure approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) called “householding.” Under this
procedure, stockholders of record who have the same address and last name and do not
participate in electronic delivery of proxy materials will receive only one copy of our
Annual Report and proxy statement unless one or more of these stockholders notifies us
that they wish to continue receiving individual copies. This procedure will reduce our
printing costs and postage fees. 

        Stockholders
who participate in householding will continue to receive separate proxy cards.
Householding will not in any way affect the mailing of dividend checks. 

        Beneficial
shareholders can request information about householding from their banks, brokers, or
other holders of record. 

        Q:
HOW DO I OBTAIN A SEPARATE SET OF PROXY MATERIALS IF I SHARE AN ADDRESS WITH OTHER 3M
STOCKHOLDERS? 

        A:
If you participate in householding and wish to receive a separate copy of the Annual
Report or this proxy statement, or if you wish to receive separate copies of future
Annual Reports and/or proxy statements, please notify Wells Fargo Shareowner Services as
noted above and the requested documents will be delivered to you promptly. 

        Q:
WHERE CAN I FIND THE VOTING RESULTS OF THE MEETING? 

        A:
We will announce preliminary voting results at the meeting and publish final results in
our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending June 30, 2003. A news release
with voting results will be available on our Web site
www.3M.com/profile/pressbox/index.html.  

        Q:
WHAT CLASS OF SHARES IS ENTITLED TO BE VOTED? 

        A:
Each share of our common stock outstanding as of the close of business on March 14, 2003,
the RECORD DATE, is entitled to one vote at the Annual Meeting. On March 14, 2003, we had
approximately 389,953,606 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. 

        Q:
WHAT IS THE QUORUM REQUIREMENT FOR THE MEETING? 

        A:
A quorum is the minimum number of shares required to hold a meeting. Under 3M’s
Bylaws, a majority of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote at the meeting
must be represented in person or by proxy for a quorum. Both abstentions and broker
non-votes are counted as present for the purpose of determining the presence of a quorum.
Broker non-votes, however, are not counted as shares present and entitled to be voted
with respect to the matter on which the broker has not voted. Thus, broker
non-votes will not affect the outcome of any of the matters being voted on at the Annual
Meeting. Generally, broker non-votes occur when shares held by a broker for a beneficial
owner are not voted with respect to a particular proposal because (1) the broker has not
received voting instructions from the beneficial owner and (2) the broker lacks
discretionary voting power to vote such shares. 

        Q:
WHO WILL COUNT THE VOTE? 

        A:
Representatives of Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, 3M’s transfer agent, will
tabulate the votes and act as the inspectors of election. 

        Q:
IS MY VOTE CONFIDENTIAL? 

        A:
The Company’s Board of Directors has a policy that all stockholder proxies, ballots,
and tabulations that identify stockholders are to be maintained in confidence. No such
document will be available for examination, and the identity and vote of any stockholder
will not be disclosed, except as necessary to meet legal requirements and allow the
inspectors of election to certify the results of the stockholder vote. The policy also
provides that inspectors of election for stockholder votes must be independent and cannot
be employees of the Company. Occasionally, stockholders provide written comments on their
proxy card that may be forwarded to 3M management. 


4 











        Q:
WHO WILL BEAR THE COST OF SOLICITING VOTES FOR THE MEETING? 

        A:
3M will pay for the cost of preparing, assembling, printing, mailing, and distributing
these proxy materials.
You will need to obtain your own Internet access if you choose to access the proxy materials and/or vote over the Internet. In
addition to mailing these proxy materials, the solicitation of proxies or votes may be
made in person, by telephone, or by electronic communication by our directors, officers,
and employees, who do not receive any additional compensation for these solicitation
activities. We have hired Georgeson Shareholder Communications, Inc. to assist us in the
distribution of proxy materials and the solicitation of votes. We will pay Georgeson
Shareholder Communications, Inc. a fee of $15,000 plus expenses for these services. We
will also reimburse brokerage houses and other custodians, nominees, and fiduciaries for
their reasonable out-of-pocket expenses for forwarding proxy and solicitation materials
to beneficial owners of stock. 

        Q:
DOES 3M OFFER STOCKHOLDERS THE OPTION OF VIEWING ANNUAL REPORTS TO STOCKHOLDERS AND PROXY
STATEMENTS VIA THE INTERNET?  

        A:
Yes. 3M offers stockholders of record the option to view Annual Reports to Stockholders
and proxy statements via the Internet, instead of receiving these documents in the mail. 

        Q:
HOW DO I ELECT THIS OPTION? 

        A:
If you are interested in viewing future Annual Reports to Stockholders and Proxy
Statements on the Internet, instead of receiving paper copies of these documents, please
do the following: 






  
        (1)
Have your account number (found above your name and address on your    dividend check
stub) and your Social Security Number (if you have one)    available. 







  
        (2)
Go to Web site www.econsent.com/mmm. 







  
        (3)
Review Important Considerations and Frequently Asked Questions. 







  
        (4)
Follow the prompts. 









        Q:
WHAT HAPPENS IF ADDITIONAL PROPOSALS ARE PRESENTED AT THE MEETING? 

        A:
Other than the proposals described in this proxy statement, we do not expect any matters
to be presented for a vote at the Annual Meeting. If you grant a proxy by telephone,
Internet, or by signing and returning your proxy card, any of the persons named as proxy
holders — W.J McNerney, Jr., 3M’s Chairman and CEO, E.A. Brennan, and R.L. Ridgway —
will have the discretion to vote your shares on any additional matters properly presented
for a vote at the meeting. If any of our nominees is unavailable as a candidate for
director, the above-named proxy holders will vote your proxy for another candidate or
candidates as may be nominated by the Board of Directors. 

        Q:
WHO IS THE COMPANY’S TRANSFER AGENT AND HOW CAN I CONTACT THEM? 

        A:
Our Transfer Agent is Wells Fargo Shareowner Services. All communications concerning
shareholders of record accounts, including address changes, name changes, common stock
transfer requirements, and similar issues can be handled by contacting Wells Fargo
Shareowner Services at 1-800-401-1952 (U.S.), 651-450-4064 (outside the U.S.),
www.wellsfargo.com/shareownerservices, or in writing, 161 North Concord Exchange, South
St. Paul, MN 55075. 

5 











GOVERNANCE OF THE
COMPANY  

Corporate Governance
Guidelines  

        The
Board has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines that, along with the charters of the
Board committees, provide the framework for the governance of the Company. The
Board’s Nominating and Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing and
reviewing the Guidelines at least annually, and recommending any proposed changes to the
Board for approval. The Guidelines and charters of the Board committees are attached to
the proxy statement as Appendices A - E. 

Assessment of Director
Independence  

        The
Board believes in having a substantial majority of independent directors on the 3M Board.
A director is “independent” under the proposed New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE) listing standards if the Board affirmatively determines that the director has no
material relationship with the Company directly or as a partner, shareholder, or officer
of an organization that has a relationship with the Company. The Board has established the
following guidelines to assist it in determining director independence: 






1. 
  

               A director will not be independent if, within the preceding five years: (a) The
               director was employed by 3M; (b) An immediate family member of the director was
               employed by 3M as an officer; (c) The director was employed by or affiliated
               with 3M’s independent auditor; (d) An immediate family member of the
               director was employed by 3M’s independent auditor as a partner,
               principal, or manager; or (e) A 3M executive officer was on the compensation
               committee of a company which employed the 3M director, or which employed an
               immediate family member of the director as an officer. 






2. 
  

               The following commercial relationships will not be considered to be material
               relationships that would impair a director’s independence: (a) If a 3M
               director is an executive officer of another company that does business with 3M
               and the annual sales to, or purchases from, 3M are less than three percent of
               the annual revenues of the company he or she serves as an executive officer; (b)
               If a 3M director is an executive officer of another company which is indebted to
               3M, or to which 3M is indebted, and the total amount of either
               company’s indebtedness to the other is less than three percent of the
               total consolidated assets of the company he or she serves as an executive
               officer. 






3. 
  

               For relationships not covered by the guidelines in paragraph 2 above, the
               determination of whether the relationship is material or not, and therefore
               whether the director would be independent or not, shall be made by the directors
               who satisfy the independence guidelines set forth in subsections (a) and (b) of
               paragraph 2. For example, if a director is the CEO of a company that purchases
               products and services from 3M that are more than three percent of that
               company’s annual revenues, the independent directors could determine,
               after considering all of the relevant circumstances, whether such a relationship
               was material or immaterial, and whether the director would therefore be
               considered independent under the proposed NYSE rules. 






4. 
  

               The Board will annually review all commercial and charitable relationships of
               directors that potentially relate to 3M. Whether directors meet these categorical independence tests will be
               reviewed and will be made public annually prior to their standing for
               re-election to the Board. 






5. 
  

               Audit and Compensation Committee members may not accept any consulting, advisory
               or other compensatory fee from 3M, other than in the member’s capacity
               as a director. 








        The
Board has reviewed all significant relationships between each director and the Company and
has affirmatively determined that (i) each of the non-employee directors has no material
relationship with the Company directly or as a partner, shareholder, or officer of an
organization that has a relationship with the Company and (ii) no members of the Audit and
Compensation Committees receives any compensation from the Company other than
director’s fees. 

3M Business Conduct
Policies  

        A
century of operating with honesty and integrity has given 3M unmatched trust from our
customers, credibility with our communities, and dedication from our employees. All of our
employees 


6 











are required to abide by 3M’s
business conduct policies to ensure that our business is conducted in a consistently
legal and ethical manner. These policies form the foundation of a comprehensive process
that includes compliance with corporate policies and procedures and a company wide focus
on uncompromising honesty and integrity in every aspect of our operations. Our business
conduct policies cover many topics, including antitrust and competition law, employment
policies, conflicts of interest, protection of confidential information, and compliance
with all laws and regulations applicable to the conduct of our business. 

        Employees
are required to report any conduct that they believe in good faith to be an actual or
apparent violation of the business conduct policies. The Audit Committee recently adopted
procedures to receive, retain, and treat complaints received regarding accounting,
internal accounting controls, or auditing matters, and to allow for the confidential and
anonymous submission by employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or
auditing matters. 

BOARD STRUCTURE AND
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP 

        The Board is divided into three classes serving
staggered three-year terms.
          The Board has ten directors and the following four Committees: Audit,
          Compensation, Nominating and Governance, and Public Issues. The membership
          during 2002 and the function of each Committee are described below. 

        During
2002, the Board of Directors held five regular and three telephonic meetings. The Audit,
Compensation, Nominating and Governance, and Public Issues Committees held four, four,
three, and three regularly scheduled meetings, respectively, during 2002. With the
exception of one director who did not attend his last committee meeting, all of our
directors attended 100 percent of the regularly scheduled meetings of the Board and Board
Committees on which they served and an average of 86 percent of the special telephonic
Board and Committee meetings. 





Name of Director
Audit
Compensation
Nominating
and
Governance
Public
Issues




 Non-Employee Directors 
 
 
 
 



 Linda G. Alvarado
X
 
 
X



 Edward A. Brennan
 
X*
X
 



 Vance D. Coffman
X
 
X
 



 Edward M. Liddy
X*
 
X
 



 Robert S. Morrison
 
X
X
 



 Aulana L. Peters
X
 
 
X*



 Rozanne L. Ridgway
 
X
X*
 



 Kevin W. Sharer
 
X
 
X



 Louis W. Sullivan
 
X
 
X









X = Committee Member; * =
Chair 

Audit Committee  

        The
Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight of the integrity of the
Company’s financial statements, compliance with legal and regulatory
requirements, the qualifications and independence of the Company’s independent
auditor, and the performance of the Company’s internal auditing department and the
independent auditor. In addition, the Committee: 






  
  
• 
  
Reviews
the annual audited and quarterly consolidated financial statements;  






  
  
• 
  
Reviews
the Company’s financial reporting process and disclosure and internal controls
and procedures, including major issues regarding accounting principles and financial
statement presentation, and critical accounting policies to be used in the consolidated
financial statements;  






  
  
• 
  
By
delegation to the Chair, reviews earnings press releases prior to issuance;  








7 









  
  
•
  
Appoints,
oversees, and approves compensation of the independent auditor;  






  
  
• 
  
Reviews
with the independent auditor the scope of the annual audit, including fees and staffing,
and approves all audit and permitted non-audit services provided by the independent
auditors;  






  
  
•  
  
Reviews
findings and recommendations of the independent auditors and management’s response
to the recommendations of the independent auditors;  






  
  
• 
  
Discusses
policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management, the Company’s major
risk exposures, and the steps management has taken to monitor and mitigate such
exposures; and,  






  
  
•  
  
Reviews
compliance with the Company’s business conduct policies.  








        A copy
of the Audit Committee Charter is attached as Appendix B to this proxy statement. 

Compensation Committee  

        The
Compensation Committee reviews the Company’s compensation practices and policies,
annually reviews and approves the compensation for the CEO and other senior executives,
evaluates CEO performance, and annually prepares a report on executive compensation for
inclusion in the Company’s proxy statement. In addition, the Committee: 






  
  
•  
  
Reviews
compensation policies of the Company to ensure they provide appropriate motivation for
corporate performance and increased shareholder value;  






  
  
•  
  
Determines,
approves, and reports to the Board on all elements of compensation for executive
officers, as described in the Report of the Compensation Committee; and  






  
  
•  
  
Interprets
and supervises the administration of the Company’s stock and long-term incentive
compensation programs, and determines the employees who receive awards and the size of
their awards under such programs.  








        A
copy of the Compensation Committee Charter is attached as Appendix C to this proxy
statement. 

Nominating and Governance
Committee  

        The
Nominating and Governance Committee establishes Board membership criteria, assists the
Board by identifying individuals qualified to become Board members, recommends to the
Board matters of corporate governance, facilitates the annual review of the performance of
the Board and its Committees, and periodically reviews CEO and management succession
plans. In addition, the Committee: 






  
  
•  
  
Selects
and recommends candidates to the Board of Directors to be submitted for election at the
Annual Meeting and candidates to fill any vacancies on the Board. The Board of Directors
has adopted criteria with respect to its membership;  






  
  
•  
  
Reviews
and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning the composition and size
of the Board and its Committees, Board membership criteria, frequency of meetings, and
directors’ fees;  






  
  
•  
  
Reviews
the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines at least annually, and recommends any
proposed changes to the Board for approval;  






  
  
•  
  
Develops
and recommends to the Board standards to be applied in making determinations on the types
of relationships that constitute material relationships between the Company and a
director for purposes of determining director independence;  






  
  
•  
  
Develops
and recommends to the Board for its approval an annual self-assessment process of the
Board and its Committees and oversee the process; and  






  
  
•  
  
Reviews
periodically with the Chairman/CEO succession plans relating to positions held by elected
corporate officers, and makes recommendations to the Board with respect to the selection
of individuals to occupy these positions.  








        A
copy of the Nominating and Governance Committee Charter is attached as Appendix D to this
proxy statement. 

8 










Public Issues Committee  

        The
Public Issues Committee reviews public policy issues and trends affecting the Company,
reviews and advises with respect to the Company’s environmental, health and
safety programs and compliance, human resources, the corporate contribution program and
the 3M Foundation, and reviews and approves the Company’s response to stockholder
proposals relating to public policy issues. In addition, the Committee: 





  
  
• 
  
Monitors
the Company’s corporate citizenship activities; and  






  
  
•  
  
Offers
advice, insights, and makes recommendations regarding policies, programs, actions, and
procedures which will enable this Company to continue to respond appropriately to its
social responsibilities and the public interest in its business affairs, including such
activities as those related to the environment, human resources, labor, and community
relations.  








        A
copy of the Public Issues Committee Charter is attached as Appendix E to this proxy
statement. 

COMPENSATION OF
NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS 

        The following table provides information on 3M’s
compensation and reimbursement practices during 2002 for non-employee directors.





Annual Director Retainer
$95,000   

Minimum Percentage of Annual Retainer to be paid in 3M Stock
68.4%

Board Meeting Attendance Fees
$  1,800   

Committee Meeting Attendance Fees
$  1,200   

Additional Retainer for Committee Chair
$  5,500   

Reimbursement for Expenses Attendant to Board Membership
Yes   







        Non-employee
directors received $65,000 of the total annual retainer of $95,000 in common stock of the
Company pursuant to the terms of the Company’s 1992 Directors Stock Ownership
Program. Non-employee directors may elect to defer payment of all or a portion of the
foregoing fees payable in cash through a deferred cash or common stock equivalents
account, and fees payable in stock through a deferred common stock equivalents account.
The non-employee directors also may elect to receive common stock of the Company at
current fair market value, in lieu of cash retainer and meeting fees. Information
regarding accumulated deferred stock is set forth in the section entitled “Common
Stock Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers.” Currently, 93 percent of
director compensation is paid in 3M stock. 



9 










PROPOSALS TO BE VOTED ON  

PROPOSAL NO. 1ELECTION OF DIRECTORS  

        The
Board is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms. Directors for each
class are elected at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held in the year in which the term
for their class expires. 

        The
terms of four directors will expire at the 2003 Annual Meeting. Directors elected at the
2003 Annual Meeting will hold office for a three-year term expiring at the Annual Meeting
in 2006 (or until their respective successors are elected and qualified, or until their
earlier death, resignation, or removal). There are no family relationships among the
Company’s executive officers and directors. Except for the Chariman, no nominee or incumbent director has been an employee of the Company within the
past five years. 

        The
persons named as proxies intend to vote the proxies for the election of the nominees to
the Board of Directors. If any of the nominees should be unavailable to serve as a
director, an event which is not anticipated, the persons named as proxies reserve full
discretion to vote for any other persons who may be nominated. 

Nominees for Terms
to Expire at the 2006 Annual Meeting:





   

Linda G. Alvarado, 50,
President and Chief Executive Officer, Alvarado Construction, Inc. In 1976, Ms. Alvarado
founded Alvarado Construction, Inc. and has overseen the growth of that enterprise as a
commercial general contracting firm. She is a director of Lennox International Inc., QWEST
Communications International, Inc., Pitney Bowes, Inc., and The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc.
She is a co-owner of the Colorado Rockies Baseball Club. Director since 2000. 

   

   

Edward M. Liddy,
57, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Allstate Corporation, the
parent of Allstate Insurance Company, a personal lines insurance company. He was President
and Chief Operating Officer of Allstate from 1994 to 1998. Before joining Allstate, Mr.
Liddy was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Sears, Roebuck and Co.,
where he held a variety of senior operating and financial positions since 1988. He is a
director of The Kroger Co., Northwestern Memorial Hospital, and Catalyst and is chair of
the Boys & Girls Clubs of America. Director since 2000.  
   

   

Robert S. Morrison,
60, Retired Vice Chairman of Pepsico and Retired Chairman, Pepsico Beverages and Foods
North America. From 1997 until the 2001 merger with PepsiCo, Mr. Morrison led The Quaker
Oats Company as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. From 1994 until 1997, Mr.
Morrison served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Kraft Foods, Inc., a division
of Philip Morris Companies, Inc. Mr. Morrison had joined Kraft in 1983 and while there
also held the positions of President of Kraft Refrigerated Products Group, President of
Kraft General Foods Canada and President of General Foods U.S.A. prior to becoming
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. He is also a director of AON Corporation and the
Tribune Company. Director since 2002.  






10








  

Aulana L. Peters,
61, Retired Partner, Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, a Law Firm, Los Angeles, California.
Mrs. Peters joined Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher as an Associate in 1973. In 1980, she was
named a Partner in the firm and continued in the practice of law until 1984, when she
accepted an appointment as Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission. In
1988, after serving four years as Commissioner, she returned to the private practice of
law from which she retired on December 31, 2000. From January 1, 2001, to April 2002, Mrs.
Peters was a member of the Public Oversight Board (“POB”) of the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. The POB had general oversight
responsibility for auditors. Mrs. Peters was a member of the Steering Committee for
Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Financial Reporting Project and a member
of the POB’s Blue Ribbon Council on Audit Effectiveness. She is a Member, U.S.
Comptroller General’s Accountability Advisory Panel. She is also a director of
Deere & Company, Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc., and Northrop Grumman Corporation. 
Director since 1990.







        The Board of
Directors recommends a vote “FOR” the election to the Board of each of
the foregoing nominees. Proxies solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted “FOR”
each of the nominees unless a contrary vote is specified. 

        The
Company’s directors listed below whose terms are not expiring this year will
continue in office for the remainder of their terms or earlier in accordance with the
Company’s Bylaws. Information regarding the business experience of the incumbent
directors is provided below. 

Directors Whose
Terms Expire at the 2004 Annual Meeting:





  

Edward A. Brennan,
69, Retired Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer, Sears, Roebuck
and Co., a diversified company engaged in merchandising, Chicago, Illinois. Mr. Brennan
joined Sears in 1956. He was an Executive Vice President, 1978 to 1980; President and
Chief Operating Officer for merchandising, 1980; Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
Sears Merchandise Group, 1981 to 1984; President and Chief Operating Officer, 1984 through
1985; and was elected Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Sears, Roebuck
and Co. in 1986. Mr. Brennan retired from Sears in 1995. He is a director of The Allstate
Corporation, Morgan Stanley, AMR Corporation, Exelon Corporation, and McDonald’s
Corporation. He is also Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Rush-Presbyterian-St.
Luke’s Medical Center, and a member of The Business Council. Director since 1986.
 

  

W. James McNerney, Jr., 53,
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Mr.
McNerney was President and Chief Executive Officer, GE Aircraft Engines from
1997-2000; President and Chief Executive Officer, GE Lighting,
Cleveland, OH, from 1995 to 1997; President, GE Asia-Pacific, Hong Kong, from 1993 to 1995;
President and Chief Executive Officer, GE Electrical Distribution & Control,
Plainville, CT, from 1991 to 1992; Executive Vice President, GE Financial Services and GE
Capital, Stamford, CT, from 1989 to 1991; President, GE Information Services, Rockville,
MD, from 1988 to 1989; and General Manager of GE Mobile Communications from 1982 to 1988. Before joining General
Electric in 1982, he first worked for Procter & Gamble in brand management
and then as a senior manager at McKinsey & Co. He is a director of The
Boeing Company and the Greater Twin Cities United Way. He is a member of the
Advisory Board of Kellogg Graduate School of Management, the World Business
Council for Sustainable Development, and The Business Council. Director since 2001. 






11 








   

Kevin W. Sharer,
55, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Amgen Inc., a biotechnology
company, Thousand Oaks, California. Mr. Sharer joined Amgen in 1992 as its President and
Chief Operating Officer and served in that capacity until elected Amgen’s
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 2000. Prior to joining Amgen, Mr. Sharer served as
President of the Business Markets Division of MCI Communications Corporation, from 1989 to
1992, and served in numerous executive capacities at General Electric Company, from 1984
to 1989. He is a director of Unocal Corporation.
Director since 2001.
   
Directors Whose
Terms Expire at the 2005 Annual Meeting:  

   

   

Vance D. Coffman,
58, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Lockheed Martin Corporation.
Chairman of Lockheed Martin since April 1998, Chief Executive Officer of Lockheed Martin
since August 1997, President of Lockheed Martin from June 1996 until August 1997, Vice
Chairman of Lockheed Martin from August 1997 to April 1998, Chief Operating Officer of
Lockheed Martin from January 1996 until August 1997, Executive Vice President of Lockheed
Martin from January to June 1996, President and Chief Operating Officer of Lockheed
Martin’s Space & Strategic Missiles Sector from March 1995 to December 1995,
Executive Vice President of Lockheed from 1992 to 1995, and President of Lockheed Space
Systems Division from 1988 to 1992. He is a director of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
Director since 2002.
  

  

Rozanne L. Ridgway,
67, Former Assistant Secretary of State for Europe and Canada.
Ambassador Ridgway served in the U.S. Foreign Service from 1957 to 1989, including assignments as Ambassador for
Oceans and Fisheries Affairs, Ambassador to Finland and to the German Democratic Republic,
and from 1985 and until her retirement in 1989, Assistant Secretary of State for European
and Canadian Affairs. Ambassador Ridgway served as President until 1993 and Co-Chair until
mid-1996 of the Atlantic Council of the United States, an association to promote better
understanding of major foreign policy issues. She is a director of The Boeing Company,
Emerson Electric Co., Sara Lee Corporation, Manpower Inc., the New Perspective Fund, the
Center for Naval Analyses, and a trustee of Brookings Institution, Hamline University and
the National Geographic Society. She is also chair of The Baltic-American Enterprise Fund.
Director since 1989.  
   

  

Louis W. Sullivan, 69,
President Emeritus, Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia.
Since completion of
his medical training, Dr. Sullivan has held both professional and administrative positions
in health care facilities and medical training institutions. He joined Morehouse College
as Professor of Biology and Medicine in 1975 and was the founding dean and director of the
Medical Education Program at the college. He was named President of Morehouse School of
Medicine in 1981. He served as Secretary, United States Department of Health and Human
Services, from 1989 to 1993. He returned to Morehouse School of Medicine in 1993. Dr.
Sullivan retired as President in 2002. He is chairman of Medical Education for South
African Blacks, the chair of BioSante Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and a director of
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, CIGNA Corporation, Equifax, Inc., Georgia-Pacific
Corporation, and United Therapeutics Corporation. He is also trustee of The Little League
Foundation. Director since 1993.  






12 











PROPOSAL NO. 2 
RATIFICATION
OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS 

        The Audit Committee appointed the firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,
independent
auditors, to audit the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its
subsidiaries for the year 2003. If the stockholders do not ratify the selection of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Audit Committee will reconsider the selection. 

        Audit
services provided by the firm in 2002 included audit of consolidated financial statements
of the Company and its subsidiaries; reviews of interim consolidated financial
information; and consultations on matters related to accounting and financial reporting. 

        PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP also provided certain audit related and nonaudit services to the Company
during 2002, all of which were reviewed by the Audit Committee. 

        Representatives
of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are expected to attend the Annual Meeting where they will be
available to respond to questions and, if they desire, to make a statement. 

        The
Board of Directors recommends a vote “FOR” the ratification of the
appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company’s independent auditors.
Proxies solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted “FOR”
ratification unless a contrary vote is specified.  

PROPOSAL NO. 3  

STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL  

        3M
has received a stockholder proposal from Nick Rossi, P.O. Box 249, Boonville, CA 95415
(the “Proponent”). The Proponent has requested the Company to include
the following proposal and supporting statement in its proxy statement for the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders. The proposal may be voted on at the Annual Meeting only if
properly presented by the shareholder Proponent or the Proponent’s qualified
representative. 

        
Proponent’s Proposal:         “This
topic won an average 60% yes vote at 50 companies in 2002 

        This
is to recommend that the Board of Directors redeem any poison pill previously issued (if
applicable) and not adopt or extend any poison pill unless such adoption or extension has
been submitted to a shareholder vote. 

        
Harvard Report         A
2001 Harvard Business School study found that good corporate governance (which took into
account whether a company has a poison pill) was positively and significantly related to
company value. This study, conducted with the University of Pennsylvania’s
Wharton School, reviewed the relationship between the corporate governance index for 1,500
companies and company performance from 1990 to 1999. 

        Some
believe that a company with good governance will perform better over time, leading to a
higher stock price. Others see good governance as a means of reducing risk, as they
believe it decreases the likelihood of bad things happening to a company. 

        Since
the 1980s Fidelity, a mutual fund gain (sic) with $800 billion invested, has withheld votes for
directors at companies that have approved poison pills, Wall Street Journal, June 12,
2002. 

        
Council of Institutional Investors Recommendation
        The
Council of Institutional Investors www.cii.org, an organization of 120 pension funds which
invests $1.5 trillion, called for shareholder approval of poison pills. In recent years,
various companies have been willing to redeem existing poison pills or seek shareholder
approval for their poison pill. This includes Columbia/HCA, McDermott International and
Bausch & Lomb. I believe that our company should follow suit and allow shareholder
participation. 

Shareholder Vote on
Poison PillsYes on 3” 


13 











Company’s
Statement Opposing the Proposal         Last
year, Mr. Rossi submitted a similar proposal relating to shareholder rights plans, or
“poison pills,” notwithstanding the fact that 3M does not have and has
never adopted a rights plan. Following the vote on that proposal, 3M’s Board of
Directors adopted the following policy that substantially implements the proposal: 






  

The
Board’s policy is that it will only adopt a rights plan if either (1)
stockholders have approved adoption of the rights plan or (2) the Board in its exercise of
its fiduciary responsibilities, including a majority of the independent members of the
Board, makes a determination that, under the circumstances existing at the time, it is in
the best interests of 3M’s stockholders to adopt a rights plan without the delay
in adoption that would come from the time reasonably anticipated to seek stockholder
approval. 








        The
proposal creates an inflexible rule depriving 3M’s Board of the ability to adopt
a rights plan without stockholder approval under the specific circumstances in which a
majority of the independent directors have determined, in the exercise of their fiduciary
obligations that adoption without delay is in the best interests of 3M’s
stockholders and would be contrary to Delaware law. 

        The
Board of Directors strongly urges stockholders to vote against this proposal because the
Board has never adopted a rights plan and a blanket requirement that shareholders approve
all rights plans under all circumstances denies the Board sufficient flexibility,
conflicts with the Board’s fiduciary obligation under Delaware law to act
expediently in the stockholders best interests, and it could prevent the Board, when
facing a hostile takeover and where appropriate, from acting quickly in the
stockholders’ best interests to adopt a shareholder rights plan. 

        The
Board of Directors recommends a vote “AGAINST” this proposal for the
reasons discussed above. Proxies solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted
“AGAINST” this proposal unless a stockholder indicates otherwise in
voting the proxy.  


14 











COMMON STOCK
OWNERSHIP OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 

        The following table sets forth information concerning beneficial ownership of
the Company’s common stock as of February 28, 2003, for: (a) each director
and the nominees for director; (b) named executive officers set forth in the
Summary Compensation Table; and (c) the directors and executive officers as a
group. Unless otherwise indicated, each person has sole investment and voting
power (or shares such powers with his or her spouse) with respect to the shares
set forth in the following table.

        The
number of shares beneficially owned by each director or executive officer is determined
under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the information is not
necessarily indicative of beneficial ownership for any other purpose. Under such rules,
beneficial ownership includes any shares as to which the individual has the sole or shared
voting power or investment power and also any shares that the individual has the right to
acquire as of April 28, 2003 (60 days after February 28, 2003), through the exercise of
any stock option or other right. Options exercisable within 60 days after February 28,
2003, are shown separately. 





Beneficial Ownership Table 



Name and Principal Position
Common Stock
Beneficially
Owned (1)
Options
Exercisable (2)
Shares Held as
Deferred Stock (3)
Total

Linda G. Alvarado, Director
 
 
 1,126
 
 —
 
 1,303
 
 2,429
 

   

Edward A. Brennan, Director  
 126
 
 —
 
 15,124
 
 15,250
 

   

Vance D. Coffman, Director  
 0
 
 —
 
 1,076
 
 1,076
 

   

Edward M. Liddy, Director  
 0
 
 —
 
 3,049
 
 3,049
 

   

Robert S. Morrison, Director  
 467
 
 —
 
 0
 
 467
 

   

Aulana L. Peters, Director  
 777
 
 —
 
 13,945
 
 14,722
 

   

Rozanne L. Ridgway, Director  
 1,288
 
 —
 
 17,156
 
 18,444
 

   

Kevin W. Sharer, Director  
 868
 
 —
 
 893
 
 1,761
 

   

Louis W. Sullivan, Director  
 814
 
 —
 
 6,775
 
 7,589
 

   

W. James McNerney, Jr., Director,  

  Chairman of the Board and  

  Chief Executive Officer  
 111,803
(4)
 473,333
 
 0
 
 585,136
(4)

   

John W. Benson,  

  Executive Vice President (5)  
 34,893
 
 116,625
 
 0
 
 151,518
 

   

Charles Reich,  

  Executive Vice President  
 25,276
 
 66,822
 
 0
 
 92,098
 

   

Harold J. Wiens,  

  Executive Vice President  
 14,894
 
 105,570
 
 0
 
 120,464
 

   

John J. Ursu,  

  Senior Vice President  
 36,891
 
 67,654
 
 0
 
 104,545
 

   

All Directors and Executive  

  Officers as a Group  

  (32 persons) (6)  
 462,323
 
 1,695,339
 
 59,321
 
 2,216,983
 









15 











FOOTNOTES TO BENEFICIAL
OWNERSHIP TABLE 

        
(1)  “Common Stock Beneficially Owned” includes stock held in joint tenancy, stock owned as tenants in common, stock
owned or held by spouse or other members of the nominee’s household, and stock in
which the nominee either has or shares voting and/or investment power, even though the
nominee disclaims any beneficial interest in such stock. Options exercisable within 60
days after February 28, 2003, are shown separately. The “Common Stock Beneficially Owned” also includes
shares of profit sharing stock held by the Company and subject to forfeiture, as more
fully described in footnotes 1 and 3 to the Summary Compensation Table.  

        (2)  Option
prices for these shares range from $48.24 to $129.00 per share.  

        (3)  “Shares
Held as Deferred Stock” by nonemployee directors represent the number of shares of
the Company’s common stock, as of February 28, 2003, which the directors will
receive upon termination of membership on the Board of Directors for any reason. These
shares result from the voluntary election by the nonemployee directors to defer the
payment of directors’ fees. No shares of common stock have as yet been issued, and
the directors have neither voting nor investment powers in these shares of deferred
stock.  

        (4)  Restricted
shares that generally vest in increments of 10 percent over a ten-year period if the
executive remains continuously employed by the Company and are subject to forfeiture
under certain circumstances.  

        (5)  Beneficial
ownership as of December 31, 2002, since Mr. Benson retired on that date.  

        (6)  All
directors and executive officers as a group owned beneficially less than one percent of
the outstanding common stock of the Company.  

SECURITY OWNERSHIP
OF MORE THAN 5 PERCENT SHAREHOLDERS

        The
following table sets forth information regarding beneficial ownership of the owners of
more than 5 percent of the outstanding 3M stock as of December 31, 2002.  





 
Name/Address 
Shares
Beneficially Owned 
Percent of
Stock Outstanding 

 
State Street Bank and Trust 
 
 
 
32,202,906(2)
 
 
8.3
 
 

 
  Company (“State Street”) (1)
 
 

 
  225 Franklin Street
 
 

 
  Boston, Massachusetts 02110  







        (1)  State
Street holds 8.3 percent of our outstanding common stock as trustee for certain 3M
savings plans, including the Company’s Voluntary Investment Plan, a 401(k)
retirement savings plan. Under the terms of the plans, State Street is required to vote
shares allocated to the accounts of the participants in accordance with instructions
received from such participants.  

        (2)  Information
is based on a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC on February 12, 2003. State Street reports
that at December 31, 2002, it had sole power to vote or direct the vote of 13,304,651
shares and sole power to dispose of or direct the disposition of 27,501,523 shares. It
also reports that it shared voting power over 17,768,862 shares and shared dispositive
power over 4,701,383 shares. State Street disclaims beneficial ownership of all of the
shares listed above.  

SECTION 16(a)
BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE

        Section
16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires our directors and executive
officers to file with the Securities Exchange Commission reports regarding their
ownership and changes in ownership of our stock. 3M believes that during 2002, its
directors and executive officers complied with all Section 16(a) filing requirements. In
making this statement, 3M has relied upon examination of the copies of Forms 3, 4, and 5
and the written representations of its directors and executive officers. 


16 











EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  

Summary Compensation Table  

        The
following table sets forth certain compensation information for the chief executive
officer and the four other executive officers of 3M who, based on their salary and bonus
compensation, were the most highly compensated for 2002 (the “Named Executive
Officers”). All information set forth in this table reflects compensation earned
by these individuals for services in 2002, as well as their compensation in 2001 and 2000. 







Annual Compensation
Long-term Compensation







Awards
Payouts


Name and Principal Position
Year
Salary ($)
Profit Sharing
(Bonus)
($)(1)
Other Annual
Compensation
($)(2)
Restricted
Stock
Awards ($)(3)
Options Granted
#-Number
of Shares (4)
Unit Plan
(LTIP)
Payouts ($)(4)
All Other
Compensation
($)(5)


W. James McNerney, Jr
 
 
 2002
 
 1,400,000
 
 3,310,830
 
 89,884
 
 —
 
 215,000
 
 0
 
 142,762
 

 Chairman of the Board and  
 2001
 
 1,300,000
 
 2,400,000
 
 295,207
 
 —
 
 180,000
 
 0
 
 680,616
 

 Chief Executive Officer  
 2000
 
 —
 
 —
 
 —
 
 11,550,000
 
 —
 
 0
 
 —
 

   

John W. Benson  
 2002
 
 595,402
 
 512,514
 
 57,330
 
  
 
74,614

 
120,036
 
4,778

 Executive Vice President  
 2001
 
 548,234
 
 351,718
 
 53,949
 
  
 
 64,658
 
 80,240
 
 87,694
 

   
 2000
 
 507,050
 
 447,226
 
 27,236
 
  
 
 47,530
 
 70,132
 
 18,022
 

   

Harold J. Wiens  
 2002
 
 566,419
 
 472,791
 
 21,394
 
  
 
 47,476
 
 505,575
 
 4,778
 

 Executive Vice President  
 2001
 
 517,040
 
 333,323
 
 36,942
 
  
 
 45,262
 
 80,240
 
 97,150
 

   
 2000
 
 471,550
 
 424,512
 
 15,020
 
  
 
 25,561
 
 150,817
 
 20,691
 

   

John J. Ursu  
 2002
 
 510,404
 
 476,328
 
 24,609
 
  
 
 69,592
 
 638,246
 
 4,778
 

 Senior Vice President  
 2001
 
 459,600
 
 327,094
 
 48,261
 
  
 
 63,121
 
 233,427
 
 66,816
 

   
 2000
 
 426,000
 
 418,231
 
 33,867
 
  
 
 37,791
 
 400,487
 
 22,996
 

   

Charles Reich  
 2002
 
 495,430
 
 468,284
 
 9,704
 
  
 
 48,549
 
 432,895
 
 4,778
 

 Executive Vice President  
 2001
 
 456,300
 
 264,245
 
 18,818
 
  
 
 44,221
 
 380,640
 
 39,443
 

   
 2000
 
 328,600
 
 321,409
 
 19,279
 
  
 
 19,415
 
 70,132
 
 38,455
 









FOOTNOTES TO SUMMARY
COMPENSATION TABLE 

        (1)
   Generally, profit sharing is paid in cash; however, the Named
Executive Officers have in the past, and may in the future, receive a portion
of their profit sharing in restricted shares of the Company’s common stock
as determined by the Compensation Committee. The restricted shares vest at the
end of three years or at age 65, whichever occurs first, or upon death or
permanent disability.  

        (2)
   “Other Annual Compensation” includes perquisites or other
personal benefits received by the named individuals, to the extent that the
aggregate amount thereof exceeds $50,000, amounts reimbursed to the individuals
during the year for payment of taxes, and that portion of interest above market
rates (as determined by the SEC) paid on that compensation voluntarily deferred
by the individuals. For Mr. McNerney, in 2002 Other Annual Compensation
includes $23,575 for personal financial planning services and $48,303 in
imputed income for use of corporate aircraft calculated pursuant to IRS
regulations applicable where the Company, for security reasons, requires its
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to utilize such aircraft exclusively.  

        (3)
   Value as of the date of grant. As of December 31, 2002, Mr. McNerney held 99,000 shares of
restricted stock that had a value of $12,206,700. These shares resulted from a
grant of 110,000 shares of restricted stock made to Mr. McNerney in accordance
with his employment agreement with the Company. These shares vest in increments
of 10 percent on the 1st of January in the years 2002 through 2011 if he
remains continuously employed by the Company. Dividends are paid on this
restricted stock to the same extent and at the same time the Company pays
dividends on its common stock. (For more information about this restricted
stock, see the section entitled “Employment Contract, Termination of
Employment, and Change-in-Control Arrangements”.) In addition, as of
December 31, 2002, each of the Named Executive Officers held the following
shares of restricted stock having the following values as a result of profit
sharing compensation earned in years prior to 2002: Mr. McNerney, 8,698 shares
having a value of $1,072,463; Mr. Benson, 1,148 shares having a value of
$141,548; Mr. Wiens, 999 shares having a value of $123,177; Mr. Ursu, 1,159
shares having a value of $142,905; and Dr. Reich, 691 shares having a value of
$85,200.  


17 











        (4)
   The number of stock options shown in this column includes both
annual grants of incentive and nonqualified stock options and Progressive Stock
Options, which are described more fully in footnote 1 to the Option Grants in
Last Fiscal Year Table.  

        (5)
   “All Other Compensation” includes: (a) the dollar value
of premiums paid on behalf of the individual for the term portion of life
insurance under the Company’s Senior Executive Split Dollar Plan, and that
amount deemed to be compensation to the individuals under the Company’s
Senior Executive Split Dollar Plan in accordance with rules developed by the
SEC. No amounts contributed by the Company since the effective date of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and (b) all amounts contributed by the Company to the account of each
named executive under the Company’s 401(k) plans. The Senior Executive
Split Dollar Plan provides insurance to all of the Company’s executive
officers under split dollar life insurance, which is partly term insurance and
partly whole life insurance with a cash value. Under this Plan, the Company is
reimbursed for the premium costs of the non-term portion of coverage and a
possible return when the arrangement terminates either by insurance proceeds
incident to the death of the individual or by cash value after 15 years of
participation in the Plan. During 2002, the only amount deemed compensation
under the Plan to the Named Executive Officers was $97,816 for Mr. McNerney.
During 2002, the amounts contributed by the Company to the accounts of the
Named Executive Officers under the Company’s 401(k) plans were $41,814 for
Mr. McNerney; $4,778 for Mr. Benson; $4,778 for Mr. Wiens; $4,778 for Mr. Ursu;
and $4,778 for Dr. Reich.  


18 











Option Grants in Last
Fiscal Year  

        The
following table shows all grants of options to acquire shares of 3M common stock granted
in 2002 to the Named Executive Officers. 







Individual Grants



Name 
Options/
SARS
Granted (#) 
% of Total
Options/SARS
Granted
to Employees in
Fiscal Year 
Exercise or
Base Price
($/Sh)(2) 
Expiration
Date (3) 
Grant Date     Value     Grant Date
Present Value ($)(4)  

W. J. McNerney, Jr
 
 
 215,000
 
 3.234
%
$ 129.00
 
 5/14/2012
 
$   7,205,486
 

   

J. W. Benson  
 48,000
 
 0.722
%
$ 129.00
 
 5/14/2012
 
 1,608,667
 

    
 18,572
 
 0.279
%
 120.50
 
 5/11/2009
 
 324,301
 

    
 7,614
 
 0.115
%
 120.50
 
 5/12/2008
 
 132,954
 

    
 428
 
 0.006
%
 120.50
 
 5/11/2003
 
 7,474
 

   

H. J. Wiens  
 40,000
 
 0.602
%
 129.00
 
 5/14/2012
 
 1,340,556
 

   
 7,476
 
 0.112
%
 127.65
 
 5/09/2010
 
 139,745
 

   

J. J. Ursu  
 37,375
 
 0.562
%
 129.00
 
 5/14/2012
 
 1,252,582
 

   
 11,947
 
 0.180
%
 112.40
 
 5/09/2010
 
 191,981
 

   
 8,459
 
 0.127
%
 112.40
 
 5/11/2009
 
 135,931
 

   
 895
 
 0.013
%
 112.40
 
 5/14/2006
 
 14,382
 

   
 5,829
 
 0.088
%
 112.40
 
 5/09/2005
 
 93,669
 

   
 1,659
 
 0.025
%
 112.40
 
 5/10/2004
 
 26,659
 

    
 3,428
 
 0.052
%
 112.40
 
 5/11/2003
 
 55,086
 

   

C. Reich  
 42,000
 
 0.632
%
 129.00
 
 5/14/2012
 
 1,407,583
 

   
 3,721
 
 0.056
%
 110.65
 
 5/13/2007
 
 58,676
 

   
 2,828
 
 0.043
%
 110.65
 
 5/14/2006
 
 44,595
 



All Optionees  
 6,649,113
 
 100.000
%
$ 128.46
 
 5/14/2012
 
$ 216,349,121
 









FOOTNOTES TO OPTION
GRANTS IN LAST FISCAL YEAR TABLE

        (1)
   The Company has not granted any stock appreciation rights
(“SARs”), except in limited circumstances to employees of
certain subsidiaries who are not subject to the tax laws of the United States
where SARs have less onerous tax consequences than stock options. The options
shown for each individual include both annual grants of nonqualified stock
options and grants of Progressive Stock Options (“PSOs”).
Nonqualified options are subject to a reload feature when exercised with the
payment of the option price in the form of previously owned shares of the
Company’s common stock. Such an exercise results in further grants of
PSOs. The first grant shown for each individual is the annual grant. The
remaining lines are PSOs. The PSO grants for each individual were made on a
single date, but are, pursuant to SEC rules, shown in multiple lines because of
different expiration dates.  

        PSO
grants were made to participants who exercised nonqualified stock options and who paid the
purchase price using shares of previously owned Company common stock. The PSO grant is for
the number of shares equal to the shares utilized in payment of the purchase price and tax
withholding, if any. The option price for the PSO is equal to 100 percent of the market
value of the Company’s common stock on the date of the exercise of the primary
option. The option period is equal to the remaining period of the options exercised. 

        The
participant must have owned Company common stock used for payment for at least six months,
and only one exercise of nonqualified options per participant per calendar year will be
eligible for PSO grants by the Compensation Committee. 

        The
presence of PSOs encourages early exercise of nonqualified stock options, without
foregoing the opportunity for further appreciation, and promotes retention of the Company
stock acquired. 


19 











        In
any event, a participant receiving an annual grant of nonqualified stock options can never
acquire more shares of Company common stock through successive exercises of the initial
and subsequent PSO grants than the number of shares covered by the initial annual grant
from the Committee. 

        (2)
   All options granted during the period were granted at the market
value on the date of grant, as calculated from the average of the high and low
prices reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index. The option
price shown for the “All Optionees” line is $128.46 and represents
the weighted average exercise price of the options granted in 2002.  

        (3)
   The expiration date for the “All Optionees” line is shown
as May 14, 2012, since that is the applicable date for the vast majority of
options granted during 2002.  

        (4)
   Pursuant to the rules of the SEC, the Company has elected to provide a
grant date present value for these option grants determined by a modified Black-Scholes
pricing model. The Company’s use of this model should not be construed as an
endorsement of its accuracy at valuing options. All stock option valuation models,
including the Black-Scholes model, require a prediction about the future movement of the
stock price. Among key assumptions utilized in this pricing model were: (i) that the time
of exercise of stock options would be 66 months (28 months for PSOs) into the term of the
option, which could be for terms as long as ten years, in recognition of the historical
exercise patterns at the Company for these types of options; (ii) expected volatility of
25.0 percent (24.1 percent for PSOs); (iii) risk-free rate of return of 4.6 percent (2.6
percent for PSOs); and (iv) dividend growth rate of 3.2 percent. No adjustments for
nontransferability or risk of forfeiture have been made. The Company expresses no opinion
that the present value will, in fact, be realized and expressly disclaims any
representation to that effect.  

Aggregated Option Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End Option Values  

        The
following table provides information on option exercises during 2002 and the value of
unexercised options at the end of 2002 for the Named Executive Officers. 






Aggregated Option Exercises in Last Fiscal Year, and FY-End Option/SAR Value





Number of
Unexercised Options
at FY-End (#)
Value of Unexercised
In-the-Money Options/SARs
at FY-End ($)(1)

Name 
Shares
Acquired
On Exercise (#) 
Value
Realized ($)(1) 
Exercisable 
Unexercisable 
Exercisable 
Unexercisable 

W.J. McNerney, Jr
 
0
 
$         0
 
 326,666
 
 668,334
 
$ 4,058,987
 
$ 9,180,014
 

J.W. Benson  
 42,205
 
 1,484,478
 
 116,625
 
 48,000
 
 1,382,876
 
 0
 

H.J. Wiens  
 15,112
 
 787,911
 
 105,570
 
 40,000
 
 1,940,617
 
 0
 

J.J. Ursu  
 39,951
 
 750,219
 
 101,865
 
 37,375
 
 903,728
 
 0
 

C. Reich  
 15,581
 
 526,014
 
 88,243
 
 42,000
 
 1,615,778
 
 0
 








(1)  
The “Value Realized” or the unrealized “Value of
Unexercised In-the-Money Options at FY-End” represents the aggregate
difference between the market value on the date of exercise or at December 31,
2002, in the case of the unrealized values, and the applicable exercise prices.
These differences accumulate over what may be, in many cases, several years.
These stock options all have option periods of ten years when first granted, and
Progressive Stock Options have option periods equal to the remaining option
period of the initial nonqualified options resulting in Progressive Stock
Options.  


20 











Long-Term Incentive Plan
Awards Table  

        The
following table shows information on awards during 2002 under the Company’s
Performance Unit Plan for the Named Executive Officers. 








Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards in Last Fiscal Year




Estimated Future Payouts
Under Non-stock Price Based Plans (3) 


Name 
Number of
Shares, Units
or Other
Rights (#)(1) 
Performance or
Other Period
Until Maturation
or Payout (2) 
Threshold ($) 
Target ($) 
Maximum ($) 

W. J. McNerney, Jr
 
 
 10,000
 

  3 years
 
$         0
 
$ 1,200,000
 
$ 3,600,000
 

J. W. Benson  
 2,400
 
  3 years 
$
         0
 
 288,000
 
 864,000
 

H. J. Wiens  
 2,400
 
  3 years 
$         0
 
 288,000
 
 864,000
 

J. J. Ursu  
 2,400
 
   
$         0
 
 288,000
 
 864,000
 

C. Reich  
 2,400
 
  3 years 
$         0
 
 288,000
 
 864,000
 









FOOTNOTES TO
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AWARDS TABLE

        (1)
   The Company’s Performance Unit Plan (the “Plan”)
provides long-term compensation to approximately 120 key management personnel
based upon the Company’s attainment of long-term performance and growth
criteria.  

        The
Compensation Committee administers the Plan. The Committee has sole discretion in the
selection of participants, performance criteria, size of awards, performance period, and
the timing and form of payment, as well as all other conditions regarding awards. 

        Awards
made in 2002 under the Performance Unit Plan are based on performance criteria that focus
management attention on two key factors that create shareholder value: Economic Profit
Growth and Improvement in Net Working Capital Turns. The payout can vary from $0 to $360
per unit. More detail about current performance goals is available in the Report of the
Compensation Committee. 

        The
right to receive payment is contingent upon continued employment to the payment date, and
is subject to forfeiture prior to the payment date in the event of termination of
employment for any reason other than retirement under a pension plan of the Company,
death, or physical or mental disability. Participants receiving awards during 2002,
including the Named Executive Officers, will receive payment in 2005, provided that such
individuals continue employment with the Company until such payment date (except in the
event of death, retirement, or disability). Payment under the Plan may be made in cash,
shares of the Company’s common stock, or any combination of cash and stock, at
the discretion of the Compensation Committee. In the past, payment has been made only in
cash. 

        (2)
   The value of awards granted for 2002 will be determined by the
Company’s attainment of Economic Profit Growth and Improvement in Net
Working Capital Turns performance criteria during a three-year performance
period of 2002, 2003, and 2004. More detail about current performance goals is
available in the Report of the Compensation Committee.  

Employment Contract,
Termination of Employment, AndChange-In-Control Arrangements  

        3M
has entered into an employment agreement with W. James McNerney, Jr. providing for his
employment as Chief Executive Officer of the Company and for his election as Chairman of
the Board of 3M. The initial term of the agreement ends on January 1, 2004, but, beginning
on January 1, 2002, the term automatically extends so that the remaining term is always
two years. The agreement provides for an initial base salary of $1,300,000 per year and
for annual profit sharing initially designed to pay $2,200,000 per year, depending on the
Company’s performance. The agreement also recognizes that Mr. McNerney will be
entitled to participate in the same retirement and welfare benefit programs that the
Company provides to other senior executives. 


21 











        The
agreement also required 3M to grant Mr. McNerney the following stock options, restricted
stock, and performance units under the Performance Unit Plan: 

        Stock
Options — Effective December 4, 2000, Mr. McNerney was granted options to purchase
600,000 shares of 3M common stock at $103.05 per share. A portion of these options was
designed to compensate Mr. McNerney for the restricted stock and stock options he
forfeited upon leaving his prior employer. 400,000 of these options become exercisable in
increments of 20 percent on the 1st of January in the years 2002 through 2006, and the
remaining 200,000 of these options become exercisable in increments of one-third on the
1st of January in the years 2002 through 2004, in each case assuming he remains employed
by the Company. All 600,000 options will become exercisable in full immediately upon
termination of Mr. McNerney’s employment by reason of death or disability,
termination without cause, a termination for good reason, or a change-in-control of the
Company. 

        In
May 2001, Mr. McNerney was granted options to purchase 180,000 shares of 3M common stock
at $117.25 per share. 

        Restricted
Stock — In order to compensate Mr. McNerney for the restricted stock and stock
options he forfeited upon leaving his prior employer, the Company also granted Mr.
McNerney 110,000 shares of restricted stock. These shares of restricted stock vest in
increments of 10 percent on the 1st of January in the years 2002 through 2011, assuming he
remains employed by the Company, although such vesting accelerates in the event of the
termination of Mr. McNerney’s employment by reason of death or disability,
termination without cause, a termination for good reason, or a change in control of the
Company. 

        Performance
Units — The Company granted Mr. McNerney 10,000 performance units for the performance
period commencing January 1, 2001, and ending December 31, 2003, subject to the terms of
the Company’s Performance Unit Plan. The value of these units and the amount paid
to Mr. McNerney will depend on the performance of the Company, but in no event will the
value be less than $100 per unit nor more than $200 per unit. 

        The
agreement also requires 3M to provide Mr. McNerney supplemental retirement benefits. If he
remains employed by 3M for at least ten years, the supplemental benefits will be equal in
value to an annuity payable for his lifetime commencing at age 62 and based on 50 percent
of his highest average annual compensation over a three-year period. If Mr. McNerney is
employed by 3M for less than ten years, the amount of these supplemental retirement
benefits will be prorated accordingly. The amount of such benefits will be reduced by the
amount of his benefits under 3M’s pension plans or the pension plans of his prior
employer. These supplemental retirement benefits vest after five years of employment with
the Company, although they vest immediately in the event of the termination of his
employment by reason of death or disability, termination without cause, a termination for
good reason, or a change in control of the Company. 

        In
the event that Mr. McNerney’s employment is terminated by the Company other than
for cause, or if Mr. McNerney terminates his employment for good reason, then he will
receive a lump sum cash payment equal to three times his annual base salary and profit
sharing. As a condition to receiving such payment, Mr. McNerney would be required to sign
a release of all claims against the Company. 

Retirement Benefits  

        The
Company maintains a tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan for its eligible employees
in the United States. Effective January 1, 2001, the Company amended this plan (the
Employee Retirement Income Plan, or the “ERIP”) to include a pension
equity feature for (1) employees hired or rehired on or after January 1, 2001, and (2)
employees who voluntarily elected the pension equity feature during the one-time choice
election period in 2001. All of the named executive officers participate in the
non-pension equity portion of the ERIP (the Portfolio I Pension Plan) except for Mr.
McNerney, who participates in the pension equity portion (the Portfolio II Pension Plan)
for service after December 31, 2001 and in the non-pension equity portion for service
through December 31, 2001. Retirement benefits under the ERIP are based on an
employee’s years of service and average annual earnings during the
employee’s highest four consecutive years of service. Since the Internal Revenue 


22 











Code limits the
amount of benefits that can be paid from the ERIP as well as the amount of compensation
upon which such benefits may be earned, the Company also maintains several nonqualified
pension plans for eligible employees. The following table shows the estimated annual
benefits payable on retirement under both the ERIP and these nonqualified plans to the
Company’s eligible employees in the United States.





Average
Annual Earnings
During the Highest
Four Consecutive
Years of Service (1)
Annual Portfolio I Retirement Benefits
With Years of Service
Indicated (2)

10
years
15
years
20
years
25
years
30
years
35
years
40
years



$  
 800,000
 
$   118,619
 
$   177,929
 
$   237,239
 
$   296,549
 
$   355,858
 
$   415,168
 
$   461,168
 

1,200,000 
 178,619
 
 267,929
 
 357,239
 
 446,549
 
 535,858
 
 625,168
 
 694,168
 

1,600,000 
 238,619
 
 357,929
 
 477,239
 
 596,549
 
 715,858
 
 835,168
 
 927,168
 

2,000,000 
 298,619
 
 447,929
 
 597,239
 
 746,549
 
 895,858
 
 1,045,168
 
 1,160,168
 

2,400,000 
 358,619
 
 537,929
 
 717,239
 
 896,549
 
 1,075,858
 
 1,255,168
 
 1,393,168
 

2,800,000 
 418,619
 
 627,929
 
 837,239
 
 1,046,549
 
 1,255,858
 
 1,465,168
 
 1,626,168
 

3,200,000 
 478,619
 
 717,929
 
 957,239
 
 1,196,549
 
 1,435,858
 
 1,675,168
 
 1,859,168
 

3,600,000 
 538,619
 
 807,929
 
 1,077,239
 
 1,346,549
 
 1,615,858
 
 1,885,168
 
 2,092,168
 

4,000,000 
 598,619
 
 897,929
 
 1,197,239
 
 1,496,549
 
 1,795,858
 
 2,095,168
 
 2,325,168
 

4,400,000 
 658,619
 
 987,929
 
 1,317,239
 
 1,646,549
 
 1,975,858
 
 2,305,168
 
 2,558,168
 

4,800,000 
 718,619
 
 1,077,929
 
 1,437,239
 
 1,796,549
 
 2,155,858
 
 2,515,168
 
 2,791,168
 






Average
Annual Earnings
During the Highest
Four Consecutive
Years of Service (1)
Annual Portfolio II Retirement Benefits
With Years of Service
Indicated (2)

5
years
10
years
15
years
20
years


$   800,000
 
$    66,967
 
$   129,469
 
$   187,506
 
$   238,847
 

 1,200,000
 
 101,300
 
 195,847
 
 283,640
 
 361,303
 

 1,600,000
 
 135,633
 
 262,225
 
 379,774
 
 483,759
 

 2,000,000
 
 169,967
 
 328,603
 
 475,907
 
 606,215
 

 2,400,000
 
 204,300
 
 394,981
 
 572,041
 
 728,671
 

 2,800,000
 
 238,634
 
 461,359
 
 668,175
 
 851,127
 

 3,200,000
 
 272,967
 
 527,737
 
 764,308
 
 973,583
 

 3,600,000
 
 307,301
 
 594,115
 
 860,442
 
 1,096,039
 

 4,000,000
 
 341,634
 
 660,493
 
 956,576
 
 1,218,495
 

 4,400,000
 
 375,968
 
 726,871
 
 1,052,709
 
 1,340,951
 

 4,800,000
 
 410,301
 
 793,249
 
 1,148,843
 
 1,463,407
 








FOOTNOTES TO PENSION
PLAN TABLE 

        (1)   Earnings
include base salary and profit sharing actually earned by the participant and
does not include any other forms of remuneration. The benefits are computed on
the basis of straight-life annuity amounts and are not subject to any deduction
for social security or other offset amounts.  

        (2)   Under
the Portfolio I plan, a participant may retire with an unreduced pension at age
60 (61 or 62 for employees born after 1942) and if the participant’s age
and years of service total at least 90 (91 or 92 for employees born after 1942)
he or she would receive a social security bridge to age 62. Under the Portfolio
II plan, a participant may retire anytime after age 55 with at least five years
of service and their pension is based on the total pension value determined at
retirement converted to an actuarially equivalent annuity. The Named Executive
Officers are presently entitled to the respective years of service credit set
opposite their names:  








 
  W.J. McNerney, Jr
2 

 
  C. Reich
34 

 
  J.W. Benson
35 

 
  H.J. Wiens
35 

 
  J.J. Ursu
31 





23 










*As described above
in the summary of his employment agreement with the Company (in the section entitled
“Employment Contract, Termination of Employment, and Change-in-Control Arrangements”),
Mr. McNerney will be entitled to receive supplemental retirement benefits from the
Company in addition to the annual retirement benefits shown in the Portfolio II Pension
Plan Table.

REPORT OF THE
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE               OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

        The
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the “Committee”)
reviews the Company’s compensation practices and policies, annually reviews and
approves the compensation of the Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives,
evaluates the performance of the Chief Executive Officer, and annually prepares this
report on executive compensation for inclusion in the proxy statement. The
Committee’s membership is determined by the Board of Directors, and is composed
solely of nonemployee directors. 

Executive Compensation
Philosophy and Practices  

        The
Board believes that providing appropriate motivation of the Company’s executives
and effective leadership are essential for establishing 3M’s preeminence in the
markets we serve and creating an attractive investment for stockholders. The Committee is
responsible to the Board for ensuring that Company executives are highly qualified and are
compensated in a manner that aligns the interests of executives and stockholders.
Consistent with this philosophy, the following core principles provide a framework for the
Company’s executive compensation programs: 






  
• 
  

Total compensation must be competitive to attract the best talent to 3M; motivate
employees to perform at their highest levels; reward outstanding achievement; and retain
those individuals with the leadership abilities and skills necessary for building
long-term stockholder value; 






  
•
  

A significant portion (targeted at 65 percent to 89 percent) of an executive’s
total compensation is variable and at risk and tied to both the annual and long-term
financial performance of the Company, such as economic profit and stock price
appreciation; and 






  
•
  

Stock ownership is emphasized so that executives manage from an owner’s
perspective. The Committee believes that broad and deep employee stock ownership
effectively aligns the interests of employees with those of stockholders and strongly
motivates executives to build stockholder value. The Committee has established specific
stock ownership guidelines for key management employees and has created programs that
encourage employees to have an ownership interest in the Company. 








        The
Committee annually surveys the executive compensation practices of large industrial
companies that are likely competitors for executive talent. The Committee’s
objective of maintaining the total compensation at a competitive level has resulted in
short-term compensation (base salary and profit sharing) being at or very close to the
median and long-term compensation (Performance Unit Plan and stock options) in the 50th to
75th percentile, with more variability and risk based on Company performance. 

        Executive
compensation is linked to Company performance compared to specific financial and
nonfinancial objectives. These objectives range from achieving earnings and sales growth
targets to upholding the Company’s Statement of Corporate Values (which include
customer satisfaction through superior quality and value, attractive investor return,
ethical business conduct, respect for the environment, and employee pride in the Company). 

Components of Executive
Compensation  

        The
compensation program for executive officers consists of the following components: base
salary, profit sharing, Performance Unit Plan, and stock options. The Committee determines
the amount of compensation under each component of executive compensation granted to the
executive officers to achieve the appropriate ratio between performance-based compensation
and other forms of compensation, and to reflect the level of responsibility of the
executive officer. 


24 











        Base
Salary         The
Committee establishes base salaries annually in relation to base salaries paid by
companies included in the compensation surveys. Base salary for an executive officer is
established each year based on (1) a compensation range corresponding to the
executive’s responsibilities and (2) the executive’s overall individual
job performance. 

        Profit
Sharing         Profit
sharing is variable compensation based on the quarterly economic profit of the Company and
its business units. Economic profit is defined as quarterly net operating income minus a
charge for operating capital used by the business. The economic profit measurement is
directly related to the creation of stockholder value since it emphasizes the effective
use of capital and solid profitable growth. Compensation paid under the profit sharing
plan fluctuates based on Company performance. 

        The
amount payable under this plan is based on the number of shares of profit sharing assigned
to a participant, multiplied by an amount based on quarterly economic profit. The total
amount paid under this plan to the Company’s five most highly compensated
executive officers never exceeds one-half percent of the Company’s consolidated
net income for any period, and no single executive officer ever receives more than
one-sixth percent of the Company’s consolidated net income for any period. Profit
sharing payments to these individuals are subject to limitations when individual amounts
exceed specified relationships to planned compensation. 

        Currently,
all profit sharing payments are made in cash. However, the plan does permit the Committee
to pay all or a portion of the profit sharing payable to the Named Executive Officers in
shares of the Company’s common stock. 

        Performance
Unit Plan         The
Performance Unit Plan is variable compensation based on the Company’s long-term
performance. The amount payable with respect to each performance unit granted is
determined by and is contingent upon attainment of the performance criteria selected each
year by the Compensation Committee over the applicable three-year performance period (each
year weighted equally). 

        The
performance criteria selected by the Compensation Committee for performance units granted
during 2002 were designed to focus management attention on two key factors that create
shareholder value: Economic Profit Growth and Improvement in Net Working Capital Turns. 

        Performance
Criteria:         (1)  
          “Economic Profit Growth” is the percentage amount by which the
          Economic Profit of the Company for a year exceeds the Economic Profit of the
          Company for the immediately preceding year; and 

        (2)  
          “Improvement in Net Working Capital Turns” is the percentage
          amount by which the Net Working Capital Turns of the Company for a year
          increases from the Net Working Capital Turns for the immediately preceding year;
          where the term “Net Working Capital Turns” means the
          Company’s net sales during the fourth quarter of a year multiplied by
          four, and divided by the Company’s Net Working Capital as of the end of
          such year; and where the term “Net Working Capital” means the
          sum of the Company’s accounts receivable and inventories, minus the
          Company’s accounts payable. 

        Performance
Unit Plan Payments:         The
amount payable for each performance unit granted in 2002 is linked to the performance
criteria of Economic Profit Growth and Improvement in Net Working Capital Turns. The
amount payable may be anywhere from $0 to $360 per unit, depending on the performance of
the Company during the three-year performance period ending on December 31, 2004. Payment
for the units granted in 2002 will be made no later than June 2005, in the form (at the
discretion of the Committee) of cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock. 

        Stock
Options         The
objectives of the Management Stock Ownership Program are to help the Company attract and
retain outstanding employees, and to promote the growth and success of the
Company’s business by 


25 











aligning
the financial interests of these employees with the other stockholders of the Company.
The Program authorizes the Committee to grant stock options, restricted stock, stock
appreciation rights, and other stock awards to employees of the Company. Currently, the
Committee makes annual grants of stock options under the Program to the executive
officers. These options have an exercise price equal to the market price of the Company’s
common stock on the grant date, and generally expire ten years after the grant date.
Stock options encourage executives to become owners of the Company, which further aligns
their interests with those of the stockholders. These options only have value to the
recipients if the price of the Company’s stock appreciates after the options are
granted. 

Stock Ownership Guidelines         The
Company’s stock ownership guidelines are designed to increase an
executive’s equity stake in 3M and more closely align his or her interests with
those of our stockholders. The guidelines provide that the CEO should attain an investment
position in 3M’s stock equal to five times his or her annual base salary,
Executive and Senior Vice Presidents should attain an investment position in 3M’s
stock equal to three times their annual base salary, and Vice Presidents who are members
of 3M’s Quarterly Management Council should attain an investment position in
3M’s stock equal to two times their annual base salary. While the stock ownership
guidelines provide that executives attain these investment positions in 3M stock within
five years of their appointment to these positions, most of our executives have already
attained or exceeded these investment positions. 

Chief Executive Officer
Compensation         Effective
January 1, 2001, the Company hired W. James McNerney, Jr., as Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer and entered into an employment agreement. In determining Mr.
McNerney’s compensation, the Board focused on competitive levels of compensation
for CEOs managing companies of similar size and complexity and the importance of hiring a
chief executive officer with the strategic, financial, and leadership skills to ensure the
continued growth and success of the Company. 

        In
his second year as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. McNerney
demonstrated strong leadership and vision for the Company. He continued the implementation
of five initiatives (Six Sigma, Global Sourcing Effectiveness, 3M Acceleration, Indirect
Cost Reduction, e-Productivity) that strengthen 3M and enhance its competitiveness. 

        The
compensation of Mr. McNerney is governed by his employment agreement and generally
consists of the same short-term and long-term components (base salary, profit sharing,
Performance Unit Plan, and stock options) as those of other Named Executive Officers. A
higher portion of Mr. McNerney’s total compensation is variable and at risk by
being tied to quantifiable measures of the Company’s performance. These measures
are Economic Profit, Economic Profit Growth and Improvement in Net Working Capital Turns,
as defined above, and appreciation in the value of 3M stock. 

        In
order to compensate Mr. McNerney for the restricted stock and stock options he forfeited
upon leaving his prior employer, the Company also granted Mr. McNerney 110,000 shares of
restricted stock. These shares of restricted stock vest in increments of 10 percent on the
1st of January in the years 2002 through 2011, assuming he remains employed by the
Company, although such vesting accelerates in the event of the termination of Mr.
McNerney’s employment by reason of death or disability, termination without
cause, a termination for good reason, or a change-in-control of the Company. 

        The
terms of Mr. McNerney’s employment agreement appear under “Employment
Contract, Termination of Employment, and Change-In-Control Arrangements” of this
proxy statement. 

Limit on Tax Deductible
Compensation         Section
162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code prohibits the Company from deducting compensation paid
in any year to certain executives in excess of $1 million but does not subject
performance-based compensation to this limit. The Committee continues to emphasize
performance-based compensation for executives and thus minimize the effect of Section
162(m). However, the Committee believes that its primary responsibility is to provide a
compensation program that attracts, retains, and rewards the executive talent necessary
for the Company’s success. Consequently, in any year the Committee may authorize
nonperformance-based compensation in excess of $1 million. The Committee recognizes that
the loss of the tax deduction may be unavoidable under these circumstances. 


26 











Conclusion         The
Committee is satisfied that the short-term and long-term compensation paid to the
executive officers of the Company is aligned with the Company’s strategic
objectives and ensures that payouts are determined by Company and employee performance. 

Submitted by the
Compensation CommitteeEdward A. Brennan, Chair Robert S. Morrison
Rozanne L. RidgwayKevin W. SharerLouis W. Sullivan 

COMPENSATION
COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION 

        The
members of the Compensation Committee are named in the preceding section.           No
members of the Compensation Committee were officers or employees of 3M or any
          of its subsidiaries during the year, were formerly 3M officers, or had any
          relationship otherwise requiring disclosure.  

REPORT OF THE AUDIT
COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

        The
role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board of Directors in its oversight of the
Company’s financial reporting process. The Board of Directors, in its business
judgment, has determined that all members of the Committee are “independent,” as
required by applicable listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. The Committee
operates pursuant to a Charter that was last amended and restated by the Board on
February 10, 2003. As set forth in the Charter, management of the Company is responsible
for the preparation, presentation, and integrity of the Company’s financial
statements, the Company’s accounting and financial reporting principles and internal
controls and procedures designed to assure compliance with accounting standards and
applicable laws and regulations. Our independent auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,
are responsible for auditing the Company’s consolidated financial statements and
expressing an opinion as to whether they are presented fairly, in all material respects,
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. 

        In
the performance of its oversight function, the Committee has: 






  
• 
  

Considered and discussed the audited consolidated financial statements with management and
our independent auditors; 






  
• 
  

Discussed with our independent auditors the matters required to be discussed by Statements
on Auditing Standards No. 61, Communication with Audit Committees, and No. 71, Interim
Financial Information, as currently in effect; 






  
• 
  

Received the written disclosures from our independent auditors required by Independence
Standards Board Standard No.1, Independence Discussions with Audit Committees, as
currently in effect, and discussed the independence of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP with
them; and 






  
•
  

Reviewed the services provided by our independent auditors other than their audit services
and considered whether the provision of such other services by our independent auditors is
compatible with maintaining their independence. 








        Based
upon the reports and discussions described in this report, and subject to the limitations
on the role and responsibilities of the Committee referred to in the Charter, the
Committee recommended to the Board that the audited consolidated financial statements be
included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2002, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Submitted by the Audit
Committee 
Edward M. Liddy, Chair 
Linda G. Alvarado
Vance D. Coffman
Aulana L. Peters 


27 







INDEPENDENT
AUDITOR’S FEES  

        The
following table presents fees for professional services rendered by PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP for the audit of the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the
years ended December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001, and fees billed for other services
rendered by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP during those periods. Certain amounts for 2001 have
been reclassified to conform to the 2002 presentation. 

Audit and Non-Audit Fees
($ in Millions)  


 

2001
 
2002  

 




 
Audit Fees: (1)
 
 
$ 6.1
 
$ 6.6
 

 
Audit Related Fees: (2)  
 .2
 
 .3
 

 
Tax Fees: (3)  
 1.3
 
 2.1
 

 
All Other Fees: (4)  
 .2
 
 .2
 

 




 
Total  
$ 7.8
 
$ 9.2
 





  

(1)
  Audit fees consisted of audit work and review services, as well as work
generally only the independent auditor can reasonably be expected to provide,
such as statutory audits, comfort letters, consents and assistance with and
review of documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  






  

(2)
   Audit related fees consisted principally of audits of employee benefit
plans and other attest services.  






  

(3)   Tax
fees consist principally of tax planning and compliance.  








(4)
  All other fees consisted principally of research, survey, and employee
benefit plan advisory services with the plan sponsor.  








Policy on Audit Committee
Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of Independent Auditors  

        Consistent
with SEC policies regarding auditor independence, the Audit Committee has responsibility
for appointing, setting compensation, and overseeing the work of the independent auditor.
In recognition of this responsibility, the Audit Committee has established a policy to
pre-approve all audit and permissible non-audit services provided by the independent
auditor. 

        Prior
to engagement of the independent auditor for the next year’s audit, management
will submit an aggregate of services expected to be rendered during that year for each of
four categories of services to the Audit Committee for approval. 

        1.  
          Audit services include audit work performed in the preparation of consolidated
          financial statements, as well as work that generally only the independent
          auditor can reasonably be expected to provide, including comfort letters,
          statutory audits, and attest services and consultation regarding financial
          accounting and/or reporting standards.  

        2.  
          Audit Related services are for assurance and related services that are
          traditionally performed by the independent auditor, including due diligence
          related to mergers and acquisitions, employee benefit plan audits, and special
          procedures required to meet certain regulatory requirements.  

        3.  
          Tax services include all services performed by the independent           auditor’s
tax personnel except those services specifically related to           the audit of the
financial statements, and includes fees in the areas of tax           compliance, tax
planning, and tax advice.  

        4.  
          Other Fees are those associated with services not captured in the other
          categories.  

        Prior
to engagement, the Audit Committee pre-approves these services by category of service. The
fees are budgeted and the Audit Committee requires the independent auditor and management
to report actual fees versus the budget periodically throughout the year by category of
service. During the year, circumstances may arise when it may become necessary to engage
the independent auditor for additional services not contemplated in the original
pre-approval. In those instances, the Audit Committee requires specific pre-approval
before engaging the independent auditor. 


28 











        The
Audit Committee has delegated pre-approval authority to the chair of the committee. The
chair must report, for informational purposes only, any pre-approval decisions to the
Audit Committee at its next scheduled meeting. 

3M STOCK PERFORMANCE
GRAPH  

        The
following compares the Company’s cumulative and annualized total stockholder
return, overall stock market performance with reinvested dividends,* during the five
fiscal years preceding December 31, 2002, against the Standard & Poor’s 500
Stock Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average, both of which are well-known and
published industry indices. The Company is included in both the S&P 500 Stock Index
and the Dow Jones Industrial group of 30 companies. The Company, as a highly diversified
manufacturer and seller of a broad line of products, is not easily categorized with other,
more specific, industry indices. 

        The
annual changes for the five-year period shown in the graph are based on the assumption
that $100 had been invested in the Company’s stock and each index on December 31,
1997 (as required by SEC rules), and that all quarterly dividends were reinvested at the
average of the closing stock prices at the beginning and end of the quarter. The total
cumulative dollar returns shown on the graph represents the value that such investments
would have had on December 31, 2002. 

Comparison of
Five-Year Cumulative and Annualized Total Return Among               3M, S&P 500 Index,
and Dow Jones Industrial Average








Cumulative Return (per graph) 







1997 
1998 
1999 
2000 
2001 
  2002 

3M
 
 
 100.0
 
 89.1
 
 125.8
 
 158.8
 
 159.3
 
 169.7
 

DJIA  
 100.0
 
 118.1
 
 150.2
 
 143.1
 
 135.5
 
 115.2
 

S&P 500  
 100.0
 
 128.5
 
 155.5
 
 141.4
 
 124.6
 
 97.2
 

Annualized Return 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

3M  
 1.2
%
 -10.9
%
 41.2
%
 26.2
%
 0.3
%
 6.5
%

DJIA  
 24.9
%
 18.1
%
 27.2
%
 -4.7
%
 -5.4
%
 -14.9
%

S&P 500  
 33.3
%
 28.5
%
 21.0
%
 -9.1
%
 -11.8
%
 -22.0
%







29 











REQUIREMENTS FOR
SUBMISSION OF SHAREHOLDER PROPOSALSFOR NEXT YEAR’S ANNUAL
MEETING

        In
order for a stockholder proposal to be considered for inclusion in 3M’s proxy
statement for next year’s Annual Meeting, our Corporate Secretary must receive
the proposal no later than 5 p.m. Central Time on November 27, 2003. Such proposals must
be sent via registered, certified, or express mail (or other means that allows the
stockholder to determine when the proposal was received by the Company) to: Gregg M.
Larson, Assistant General Counsel and Secretary, 3M Company, 3M Center, Bldg.
0220-11-W-02, St. Paul, MN 55144-1000. Such proposals must contain the information
required under 3M’s Bylaws, and also will need to comply with  the SEC’s
regulations regarding the inclusion of stockholder
proposals in Company sponsored proxy materials, such as the Stockholder continuing to own a minimum number
of shares until the Annual Meeting and appearing in person at the meeting to present the
proposal. 

        Alternatively,
stockholders intending to (a) present a proposal at next year’s Annual Meeting without having
it included in the Company's proxy statement or (b) nominate a person for election as a
director, must comply with the requirements set forth in the Company’s Bylaws.
Our Bylaws require, among other things, that our Corporate Secretary receive written
notice from the record shareholder no earlier than January 14, 2004, and no later than
February 13, 2004. The notice must contain the information required by the Bylaws, a copy
of which is available upon request to our Corporate Secretary. 

        Proposals
or nominations received after the dates mentioned will not be included in the proxy
statement or acted upon at the Annual Meeting. 

By Order of the Board of Directors.


GREGG
M. LARSON Assistant General Counsel and Secretary  


30 











APPENDIX A  

3M CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
GUIDELINES  






A.  
   

THE ROLES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT  






1. 
  

The Board of Directors — The business of the Company is conducted under the
oversight of the Board of Directors. The Board selects the Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer and delegates to the CEO the authority and responsibility to
manage the Company’s operations. The Board of Directors serves as
elected representatives of the shareholders, acts as an advisor and counselor to
the CEO and senior management, and oversees management performance on behalf of
shareholders.  






2. 
  

Management — The CEO and senior management are responsible for running the
Company’s business operations.  






B.  
   

BOARD COMPOSITION AND LEADERSHIP  






1. 
  

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer — The Board has the
authority to decide whether the positions of Chairman and CEO should be held by
the same person and shall determine the best arrangement for the Company and its
shareholders in light of all relevant and changing circumstances. The Board
currently believes that the same individual should hold the position of Chairman
and CEO (Chairman/CEO).  






2. 
  

Size of the Board — The number of directors should not exceed a number that
can function efficiently. The Nominating and Governance Committee considers and
makes recommendations to the Board concerning the appropriate size and needs of
the Board.  






3. 
  

Board Independence — The Board believes in having a substantial majority of
independent directors on the 3M Board. A director is
“independent” if the Board affirmatively determines that the
director has no material relationship with the Company directly or as a partner,
shareholder or officer of an organization that has a relationship with the
Company and otherwise meets the requirements for independence of the listing
standards of the New York Stock Exchange. The independent directors will make
the Board decisions on corporate governance matters.  






4. 
  

Board Membership Criteria — The Nominating and Governance Committee
periodically reviews with the Board the appropriate skills and characteristics
required of Board members given the current Board composition. It is the intent
of the Board that the Board, itself, will be a high performance organization
creating competitive advantage for the Company. To perform as such, the Board
will be comprised of individuals who have distinguished records of leadership
and success in their arena of activity and who will make substantial
contributions to Board operations. The Board’s assessment of Board
candidates includes, but is not limited to, consideration of: (i) roles and
contributions valuable to the business community, (ii) personal qualities of
leadership, character, judgment and whether the candidate possesses and
maintains throughout service on the Board a reputation in the community at large
of integrity, trust, respect, competence and adherence to the highest ethical
standards, (iii) relevant knowledge and diversity of background and experience
in such things as business, manufacturing, technology, finance and accounting,
marketing, international business, government and the like; or (iv) whether the
candidate is free of conflicts and has the time required for preparation,
participation and attendance at all meetings. A director’s
qualifications in light of these criteria is considered at least each time the
director is re-nominated for Board membership.  






5. 
  

Selection of New Director Candidates — The Nominating and Governance
Committee screens and recommends Board candidates to the Board.  






6. 
  

Director Orientation and Continuing Education — The Company provides
directors with an orientation and education program to familiarize them with the
Company’s business operations and plans, industry trends and corporate
governance practices, as well as ongoing education on issues facing the Company
and on subjects that would assist the directors in discharging their duties.  








A-1 









7. 
  

Directors Who Experience Change in Present Job Responsibilities or Other
Relevant Circumstances — When a director’s principal occupation or
business affiliation changes, or other circumstances arise which may raise
questions about the Director’s continuing qualifications in relation to
the Board Membership Criteria set forth above, then the director should tender
her/his resignation, or the Nominating and Governance Committee will ask for
such tender. The Nominating and Governance Committee will consider the tendered
resignation and recommend to the Board the action to be taken.  






8. 
  

Service On Other For-Profit Boards — Independent directors are encouraged
to evaluate carefully the time required to serve on other boards (excluding
non-profit) taking into account board attendance, preparation, participation and
effectiveness on these boards. Independent directors must advise the
Chairman/CEO before accepting an invitation to serve on another board to enable
the Company to determine whether (i) any regulatory issues or potential
conflicts are raised by the director accepting such an invitation and (ii) the
director will have the time required for preparation, participation and
attendance at 3M Board meetings.  






9. 
  

Retirement Policy — Each non-employee director must tender her/his
resignation at the annual meeting following her or his 72nd birthday. If
circumstances dictate, the Nominating and Governance Committee may ask a
director to continue to serve on the Board past age 72.  






10. 
  

Board Compensation Review — The Nominating and Governance Committee will
periodically receive reports on the status of Board compensation in relation to
other large U.S. companies and is responsible for recommending to the Board
changes in compensation for non-employee directors.  






11. 
  

Board’s Interaction With Stakeholders — The Chairman/CEO is
responsible for establishing effective communications with the
Company’s stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, employees,
communities, suppliers, creditors, governments, and corporate partners. It is
the policy of the Board that management speaks for the Company. This policy does
not preclude independent directors from meeting with stakeholders, but
management where appropriate should be present at such meetings.  






C.  
   

BOARD OPERATIONS  






1. 
  

Selection of Agenda Items for Board Meetings — At the first Board meeting
of each year, the Chairman/CEO will propose for the Board’s approval
agenda items to be discussed during the course of the year. Before each meeting,
the Chairman/CEO will review proposed agenda items that fall within the scope of
responsibilities of a Board committee with the chair of that committee and
distribute the agenda in advance to the Board. Any Board member may ask to
include items on the agenda.  






2. 
  

Board Materials Distributed in Advance — Board members receive materials
related to agenda items in advance of Board meetings so that the directors may
prepare to discuss the items at the meeting. Sensitive subjects may be discussed
at the meeting without distributing written materials in advance or at the
meeting.  






3. 
  

Director Responsibilities — Directors must exercise their business judgment
to act in the best interests of the shareholders and the Company. In discharging
this obligation, directors reasonably may rely on the Company’s senior
executives and its advisors and auditors. Directors are expected to attend and
participate in all meetings of the Board and of committees on which they serve
and to spend the time needed and prepare for and meet as frequently as necessary
to discharge their responsibilities.  






4. 
  

Board Presentations and Access to Employees — Members of senior management
may be invited to attend part or all of a Board meeting in order to participate
in discussions. Generally, the executive responsible for an area of the
Company’s operations the Board is to consider makes the presentation.
Board members have complete access to all other members of management and
Company employees.  









A-2 









5. 
  

Board Access to Independent Advisors — The Board and its committees may
seek advice from outside advisors as appropriate. The Board shall have sole
authority to approve related fees and retention terms.  






6. 
  

Executive Sessions of Independent Directors — Independent directors
regularly meet without the Chairman/CEO and may select a director to facilitate
the meeting. The chairs of the Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Governance,
and Public Issues Committees of the Board may chair executive sessions of the
independent directors at which the principal items to be considered are within
the scope of the committee chair’s authority. The Board believes that
this practice ensures leadership at all executive sessions of the independent
directors without needing to designate a lead director.  






D.  
   

BOARD COMMITTEES  






1. 
  

Committees — The current committees are Audit, Compensation, Nominating and
Governance, and Public Issues.  






2. 
  

Assignment and Term of Service of Committee Members — The Board is
responsible for the appointment of committee members and chairs, based on
recommendations of the Nominating and Governance Committee. The Board at its
first meeting following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders shall elect the
members of each committee.  






3. 
  

Agenda, Frequency, Length and Reports of Committee Meetings — The chair of
each committee approves the agenda, length of and attendance at each committee
meeting and determines the frequency of meetings. Materials related to agenda
items are given to the committee members sufficiently in advance to allow the
members to prepare for discussing the items at the meeting. The committee chairs
report a summary of their meeting to the Board following each regular committee
meeting.  






4. 
  

Membership — All Board members may serve on the Public Issues Committee,
but only independent directors may serve on the Audit, Compensation, and
Nominating and Governance Committees.  






5. 
  

Responsibilities — The Board periodically reviews the responsibilities of
each committee and approves the committee charters, copies of which are attached
to these guidelines.  






E.  
  

BOARD AND MANAGEMENT EVALUATION  






1. 
  

Formal Evaluation of the Chairman/CEO — The Compensation Committee, in
consultation with the Chairman/CEO, sets annual and long-term performance goals
for the Chairman/CEO. The Chair of the Compensation Committee leads the
discussion of the Chairman/CEO’s performance against such goals with
the independent directors and communicates the Board’s evaluation to
the Chairman/CEO. The Compensation Committee will use the evaluation when
determining the compensation of the Chairman/CEO.  






2. 
  

Board Self-Assessment — The Board will conduct an annual self-evaluation to
determine whether it and its committees are functioning effectively. The
Nominating and Governance Committee will receive comments from all directors and
share those comments with the Board. Based on the comments and further
discussion, the Board will make an assessment specifically reviewing areas in
which the Board and/or the management believe improvements could be made to
increase the effectiveness of the Board and its committees.  






3. 
  

Succession Planning — The Board plans the succession to the position of
Chairman/CEO and certain other senior management positions. To assist the Board,
the Chairman/CEO annually assesses senior managers and their succession
potential. The Chairman/CEO also provides the Board with an assessment of
persons considered potential successors to certain senior management positions.  






4. 
  

Management Development — The Chairman/CEO annually should report to the
Board on the Company’s program for management development.  









A-3 











Policy On Adoption of a
Rights Plan  

        In
2002, Mr. Nick Rossi, a 3M stockholder, submitted a shareholder proposal to 3M regarding
the approval process for adopting a stockholders’ rights plan (also known as a
“poison pill”). 3M does not have a rights plan and is not currently
considering adopting one. The Board continues to believe, however, that there may be
circumstances under which adoption of a rights plan would be necessary to give the Board
the negotiating power and leverage to obtain the best result for 3M stockholders in the
context of a takeover effort. 

        Following
consideration of the favorable vote Mr. Rossi’s proposal received and in light of
this belief, the Board has adopted a statement of policy on this topic. The
Board’s policy is that it will only adopt a rights plan if either (1)
stockholders have approved adoption of the rights plan or (2) the Board in its exercise of
its fiduciary responsibilities, including a majority of the independent members of the
Board, makes a determination that, under the circumstances existing at the time, it is in
the best interests of 3M’s stockholders to adopt a rights plan without the delay
in adoption that would come from the time reasonably anticipated to seek stockholder
approval. 

        The
Board has directed the Nominating and Governance Committee to review this policy statement
on an annual basis and to report to the Board on any recommendations it may have
concerning the policy. The terms of the policy, as in effect, will be included in
3M’s published Corporate Governance Guidelines and its proxy statement. 


A-4 











APPENDIX B  

3M Company Board of
DirectorsAudit Committee Charter (As Amended February
10, 2003) 






A. 
  

Purpose: The purpose of the Audit Committee (the “Committee”)
of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of 3M Company (the
“Company”) is to assist the Board in its oversight of (i) the
integrity of the Company’s financial statements, (ii) the
Company’s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, (iii) the
qualifications and independence of the Company’s external auditor (the
“Independent Auditor”), and (iv) performance of the
Company’s internal auditing department (“Internal
Audit”) and the Independent Auditor.  






B. 
  

Membership: The Committee’s membership is determined by the Board upon
recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee and consists of at
least three directors. The members of the Committee shall meet the independence
and experience requirements of the listing standards of the New York Stock
Exchange and the requirements for audit committee service set forth in the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Act”), and
the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”). At least one member of the Committee shall be a
financial expert as determined by the Board in compliance with criteria
established by the SEC. Committee members shall not serve on the audit
committees of more than two other public companies unless the Board determines
that such service does not impair the member’s ability to serve
effectively on the Committee.  






C. 
  

Roles and Responsibilities: The Committee’s responsibility is one of
oversight. The management of the Company is responsible for the preparation of
complete and accurate annual and quarterly consolidated financial statements
(“financial statements”) in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States and for maintaining appropriate
accounting and financial reporting principles and policies and internal controls
designed to assure compliance with accounting standards and laws and
regulations. The Independent Auditor is responsible for planning and conducting
in accordance with Generally Accepted Auditing Standards in the United States an
audit of the Company’s annual consolidated financial statements and a
review of the Company’s quarterly financial statements. The Committee
shall have the authority to take any and all acts that it deems necessary to
carry out its oversight function, including but not limited to:  






  
  
  
1.  
  
Financial
Reporting and Disclosure  






  
  
  
  
a.  
Review
and discuss the annual audited financial statements and quarterly           financial
statements with management and the Independent Auditor, including the
          disclosures under the caption “Management Discussion and Analysis of
          Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The Committee shall
          make a recommendation to the Board as to whether the audited financial
          statements should be included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form
          10-K.  
  






  
  
  
  
b.  
Review
the Company’s financial reporting processes, disclosure and           internal
controls and procedures, and the process for the CEO and CFO quarterly
          certifications required by the SEC with respect to financial statements and the
          Company’s disclosure and internal controls and procedures. Such review
          shall include a consideration of major issues regarding accounting principles
          and financial statement presentations, including any significant changes in the
          Company’s selection or application of accounting principles, and any
          reports by the CEO and CFO regarding major issues as to the adequacy of the
          Company’s disclosure and internal controls and procedures and any
          special audit steps adopted in light of identified deficiencies.  
  






  
  
  
  
c.  
Obtain
and review annually, prior to the completion of the Independent Auditor’s annual
audit of the Company’s year-end financial statements (the “Annual Audit”),
a report from the Independent Auditor, describing (i) all critical accounting policies
and practices to be used in the financial statements, (ii) all alternative treatments of
financial information within generally accepted accounting principles that have been
discussed with management,   
  









B-1 









  

ramifications
of the use of such alternative disclosures and treatments, and the treatment preferred by
the Independent Auditor, and (iii) other material written communications between the
Independent Auditor and management, such as any management letter or schedule of
unadjusted differences. Review any reports on such topics or similar topics prepared by
management, including any significant financial reporting issues and judgments made in
connection with the preparation of the financial statements. Discuss with the Independent
Auditor any material issues raised in such reports.  






  
  
  
  
d.  
Discuss
earnings press releases, as well as financial information and earnings           guidance
provided to analysts and rating agencies, provided that such           discussions may be
done generally (i.e., by discussing the types of information           to be disclosed
and the type of presentation to be made). The management will           review with the
chair of the Committee earnings press releases prior to           issuance.  
  






  
  
  
  
e.  
Discuss
with management and the Independent Auditor the effect of regulatory           and
accounting initiatives, as well as off-balance sheet structures, if any, on           the
Company’s financial statements.  
  






  
  
  
2.  
  
Internal
Audit  






  
  
  
  
a.  
Review
the annual plan and scope of work of Internal Audit, including its
          responsibilities and staffing.  
  






  
  
  
  
b.  
Review,
as appropriate, the results of internal audits and discuss related           significant
internal control matters with the Company’s internal           auditor and Company
management.  
  






  
  
  
  
c.  
Discuss
the adequacy of the Company’s internal controls with Internal           Audit.  
  






  
  
  
  
d.  
Review
the appointment and periodically evaluate the performance of the senior
          internal auditing executive.  
  






  
  
  
3.  
  
Independent
Auditor 






  
  
  
  
a.  
Responsible
for the appointment, retention, termination, compensation and           oversight of the
Independent Auditor. The Committee shall also be responsible           for the resolution
of disagreements between management and the Independent           Auditor. The
Independent Auditor shall report directly to the Committee.  
  






  
  
  
  
b.  
Review
the scope of the Annual Audit and services to be provided by the           Independent
Auditor during the year. Pre-approve all audit and permitted           non-audit services
to be provided to the Company by the Independent Auditor,           subject to any
exceptions provided by the Act. The chair of the Committee may           pre-approve any
such services according to the procedures approved by the           Committee, provided
that any approval by the chair must be presented to the           Committee at its next
meeting.  
  






  
  
  
  
c.  
Obtain
and review, at least annually, a report from the Independent Auditor
          describing: (i) the Independent Auditor’s internal quality-control
          procedures; (ii) any material issues raised by the most recent internal
          quality-control review, or peer review, of the Independent Auditor, or by any
          inquiry or investigation by governmental or professional authorities, within
the           preceding five years, respecting one or more independent audits carried out
by           the Independent Auditor, and any steps taken to deal with any such issues;
and           (iii) all relationships between the Independent Auditor and the Company,
          including the matters set forth in Independence Standards Board Standard No. 1.
          Discuss with the Independent Auditor any issues or relationships disclosed in
          such report that, in the judgment of the Committee, may have an impact on the
          competence or independence of the Independent Auditor.  
  






  
  
  
  
d.  
Discuss
with the Independent Auditor the matters required to be discussed           pursuant to
the Statement on Auditing Standards No. 61, Communication with Audit
          Committees, as currently in effect, including any audit problems or
difficulties           encountered in performing the audit and management’s
response, and           disagreements with management.  
  








B-2 









  
  
  
  
e.  
Obtain
assurance from the Independent Auditor that the audit was conducted in a           manner
consistent with Section 10A of the Act.  
  






  
  
  
  
f.  
Review
and periodically evaluate the performance of the lead audit partner of           the
Independent Auditor and assure the regular rotation of the lead audit           partner
and the audit partner responsible for reviewing the audit as required by           law.  
  






  
  
  
  
g.  
Establish
policies for the Company’s hiring of employees or former           employees of the
Independent Auditor who participated in any capacity in the           audit of the
Company.  
  






  
  
  
4.  
  
Risk
Management and Compliance 






  
  
  
  
a.  
Discuss
policies and procedures with respect to risk assessment and risk           management,
the Company’s major risk exposures and the steps management           has taken to
monitor and mitigate such exposures.  
  






  
  
  
  
b.  
Review
the effectiveness of the system for monitoring compliance with laws,
          regulations and the Company’s business conduct policies and the results
          of management’s investigation and follow-up on any fraudulent acts or
          accounting irregularities.  
  






  
  
  
  
c.  
Periodically
obtain reports from management regarding compliance.  
  






  
  
  
  
d.  
Review
with the Company’s General Counsel legal matters that may have           a material
impact on the consolidated financial statements and any material           reports or
inquiries received from regulators or governmental agencies regarding
          compliance.  
  






  
  
  
  
e.  
Establish
procedures for (i) the receipt, retention, and treatment of           complaints received
by the Company regarding accounting, internal accounting           controls, or auditing
matters; and (ii) the confidential, anonymous submission           by Company employees
of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing           matters. Review
periodically with management and Internal Audit these procedures           and any
significant complaints received.  
  






  
  
  
5.  
  
Meetings,
Reports, Charter Review, Performance Evaluation and Outside Advisors 






  
  
  
  
a.  
The
Committee shall meet with such frequency and at such intervals as it shall
          determine is necessary to carry out its duties and responsibilities, but in any
          case, not less than four times a year. The Committee shall meet separately,
          periodically, with management, with internal auditors and with the Independent
          Auditors. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. A majority of
the           members present shall decide any matter brought before the Committee.  
  






  
  
  
  
b.  
Report
regularly to the Board.  
  






  
  
  
  
c.  
Prepare
the report of the Committee required to be included in the           Company’s
annual proxy statement.  
  






  
  
  
  
d.  
Review
the adequacy of this Charter at least annually and recommend any           proposed
changes to the Board for approval.  
  






  
  
  
  
e.  
 Conduct
an annual performance evaluation of the Committee.  
  






  
  
  
  
f.  
The
Committee shall have the authority to retain such outside legal, accounting           or
other advisors, as the Committee may deem appropriate in its sole discretion.
          The Committee shall have sole authority to approve related fees and retention
          terms.  
  









B-3 











APPENDIX C  

3M Company Board of
Directors Compensation Committee Charter(As Amended February 10, 2003)  






  
  
A.  
  
Purpose:
The Compensation Committee (the “Committee”) of the Board of
Directors of 3M Company reviews the Company’s compensation practices and
policies, annually reviews and approves the compensation for the CEO and other
senior executives, evaluates CEO performance, and annually prepares a report on
executive compensation for inclusion in the Company’s proxy statement.  






  
  
B.  
  
Membership:
The Committee’s membership is determined by the Board and consists of at least
three directors. All members of the Committee shall meet the independence requirements of
the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange, qualify as “Non-employee
Director” for purposes of Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and satisfy the requirements of “outside directors” for purposes of
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.  






  
  
C.  
  
Roles
and Responsibilities: The responsibilities of the Committee include:  






  
  
  
1.  
  
Compensation
Practices and Policies 






  
  
  
  
a.  
Review
compensation practices and policies of the Company to ensure they           provide
appropriate motivation for corporate performance and increased           shareholder
value.  
  






  
  
  
  
b.  

           Oversee the administration of the Company’s stock and deferred
          compensation programs, and determine the employees who receive awards and the
          size of those awards under the Company’s Management Stock Ownership
          Program.  
  






  
  
  
  
c.  
Make
recommendations to the Board of Directors regarding the adoption,           amendment or
termination of equity compensation programs that require           shareholder approval.  
  






  
  
  
  
d.  
Approve
the adoption, amendment and termination of incentive compensation and           deferred
compensation programs for employees of the Company.  
  






  
  
  
2.  
  
Executive
Compensation 






  
  
  
  
a.  
Periodically
survey the executive compensation practices of other large           companies.  
  






  
  
  
  
b.  
Annually
review and approve, for the CEO and other senior executives of the           Company, (i)
the annual base salary, (ii) profit sharing, (iii) awards under the           Company’s
Performance Unit Plan, (iv) stock option grants and awards           under the Company’s
Management Stock Ownership Program.  
  






  
  
  
  
c.  
Approve
for the CEO and other senior executives of the Company employment           agreements,
severance arrangements, change-in-control arrangements and any           special or
supplemental benefits.  
  






  
  
  
  
d.  
Establish
and certify the satisfaction of performance goals for           performance-based
compensation as required under Section 162(m) of the Internal           Revenue Code.  
  






  
  
  
  
e.  
Review
shareholder proposals relating to executive compensation matters and           recommend
to the Board the Company’s response to such proposals.  
  






  
  
  
3.  
  
 CEO
Compensation 






  
  
  
  
a.  
Review
and approve annual corporate goals and objectives for the CEO.  
  






  
  
  
  
b.  
The
Chairman of the Committee leads the discussion of the CEO’s           performance
against such goals and objectives with the independent directors and
          communicates the Board’s evaluation to the CEO.  
  






  
  
  
  
c.  
Establish
and revise the CEO’s compensation levels based on these           evaluations. In
determining the long-term incentive component of CEO           compensation, the
Committee will  
  







C-1 








  

consider
the Company’s performance and relative shareholder return, the value of similar
incentive awards to CEOs at other large companies, and the awards given to the CEO in
past years.  






  
  
  
4.  
  
Meetings,
Reports, Charter Review, Performance Evaluation and Outside Advisors 






  
  
  
  
a.  
Hold
regular meetings of the Committee, reporting significant matters arising           from
such meetings to the Board. A majority of the members shall constitute a
          quorum. A majority of the members present shall decide any matter brought
before           the Committee.  
  






  
  
  
  
b.  
Prepare
a report on executive compensation required by the rules of the           Securities and
Exchange Commission for inclusion in the Company’s           annual proxy statement.  
  






  
  
  
  
c.  
Review
and reassess the adequacy of this Charter at least annually and submit           any
changes to the Board for approval.  
  






  
  
  
  
d.  
Conduct
an annual performance evaluation of the Committee.  
  






  
  
  
  
e.  
The
Committee shall have the authority to retain such compensation consultants,
          outside counsel and other advisors as the Committee may deem appropriate in its
          sole discretion. The Committee shall have sole authority to approve related
fees           and retention terms.  
  










C-2 











APPENDIX D  

3M Company Board of
Directors Nominating and Governance Committee Charter (As Amended February 10, 2003) 






  
  
A.  
  
Purpose:
The Nominating and Governance Committee (the “Committee”) of the Board of
Directors of 3M Company establishes Board membership criteria; assists the Board by
identifying individuals qualified to become Board members; recommends to the Board
matters of corporate governance; facilitates the annual review of the performance of the
Board and its committees; and periodically reviews CEO and management succession plans.  






  
  
B.  
  
Membership:
The Committee’s membership is determined by the Board and consists of at least
three directors. The members of the Committee shall meet the independence requirements of
the New York Stock Exchange.  






  
  
C.  
  
Roles
and Responsibilities: The responsibilities of the Committee include:  






  
  
  
1.  
  
Board
and Committee Membership 






  
  
  
  
a.  
Periodically
review with the Board the appropriate size of the Board and the           requisite
skills and characteristics of its members as set forth below.  
  






  
  
  
  
b.  
It
is the intent of the Board that the Board, itself, will be a high           performance
organization creating competitive advantage for the Company. To           perform as
such, the Board will be comprised of individuals who have           distinguished records
of leadership and success in their arena of activity and           who will make
substantial contributions to Board operations.  
  






  
  
  
  
c.  
The
Board’s assessment of Board candidates includes, but is not           limited to,
consideration of: (i) roles and contributions valuable to the           business
community, (ii) personal qualities of leadership, character, judgment           and
whether the candidate possesses and maintains throughout service on the           Board a
reputation in the community at large of integrity, trust, respect,           competence
and adherence to the highest ethical standards, (iii) relevant           knowledge and
diversity of background and experience in such things as business,
          manufacturing, technology, finance and accounting, marketing, international
          business, government and the like; or (iv) whether the candidate is free of
          conflicts and has the time required for preparation, participation and
          attendance at all meetings. A director’s qualifications in light of
          these criteria is considered at least each time the director is re-nominated
for           Board membership.  
  






  
  
  
  
d.  
Review
the resignation of directors whose principal occupation or business           association
changes, or other circumstances arise which may raise questions           about the
director’s continuing qualifications in relation to the Board           membership
criteria referred to above and recommend to the Board what action the           Board
should take with respect to the resignation.  
  






  
  
  
  
e.  
Review
the Board’s committee structure and recommend to the Board the           appointment
of committee members and chairs.  
  






  
  
  
2.  
  
Qualified
Director Candidates 






  
  
  
  
a.  
Identify
individuals that the Committee believes are qualified to become Board           members
in accordance with the Board Membership Criteria set forth above, and           recommend
that the Board select such nominee or nominees to stand for election           at the
next meeting of stockholders of the Company in which directors will be           elected.  
  






  
  
  
  
b.  
In
the event there is a vacancy on the Board, identify individuals that the
          Committee believes are qualified to become Board members in accordance with the
          Board Membership Criteria set forth above, and recommend such person or persons
          for appointment to the Board.  
  






  
  
  
  
c.  
Review
and evaluate all stockholder nominees for director (submitted in           accordance
with the Company’s Bylaws) in accordance with the Board           Membership
Criteria set forth above.  
  







D-1 








  
  
  
3.  
  
Corporate
Governance 






  
  
  
  
a.  
Review
the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines at least           annually, and
recommend any proposed changes to the Board for approval.  
  






  
  
  
  
b.  
Develop
and recommend to the Board standards to be applied in making           determinations on
the types of relationships that constitute material           relationships between the
Company and a director for purposes of determining           director independence.  
  






  
  
  
  
c.  
Review
and recommend to the Board proposed changes to the Company’s           Certificate
of Incorporation and Bylaws.  
  






  
  
  
  
d.  
Review
shareholder proposals relating to corporate governance matters and           recommend to
the Board the Company’s response to such proposals.  
  






  
  
  
4.  
  
Board
and Committee Self-Assessment. Develop and recommend to the Board for its approval an
annual self-assessment process of the Board and its committees and oversee the process.
Based on this process, the Board will make an assessment reviewing areas in which the
Board and/or management believe improvements could be made to increase the effectiveness
of the Board.  






  
  
  
5.  
  
Succession
Planning. Review periodically with the Chairman/CEO his assessment of
corporate officers and succession plans relating to their positions, and
to make recommendations to the Board with respect to the selection of
individuals to occupy these positions.  






  
  
  
6.  
  
Miscellaneous
Matters 






  
  
  
  
a.  
Periodically
review and recommend to the Board changes in Board compensation.  
  






  
  
  
  
b.  
Establish
and periodically review and recommend to the Board director           retirement
policies.  
  






  
  
  
7.  
  
Meetings,
Reports, Charter Review, Performance Evaluation and Outside Advisors 






  
  
  
  
a.  
Hold
regular meetings of the Committee, reporting significant matters arising           from
such meetings to the Board. A majority of the members shall constitute a
          quorum. A majority of the members present shall decide any matter brought
before           the Committee.  
  






  
  
  
  
b.  
Review
and reassess the adequacy of this Charter at least annually and submit           any
changes to the Board for approval.  
  






  
  
  
  
c.  
Conduct
an annual performance evaluation of the Committee.  
  






  
  
  
  
d.  
The
Committee shall have the authority to retain search firms to assist in
          identifying director candidates, and to retain outside counsel and any other
          advisors as the Committee may deem appropriate in its sole discretion. The
          Committee shall have sole authority to approve related fees and retention
terms.  
  









D-2 







APPENDIX E  

3M Company Board of
Directors Public Issues Committee Charter (As Amended February 10, 2003)  



  
  
A.  
  
Purpose:
The Public Issues Committee (the “Committee”) of the Board of Directors of
3M Company reviews public policy issues and trends affecting the Company, reviews and
advises with respect to the Company’s environmental, health and safety programs and
compliance, human resources, the corporate contribution program and the 3M Foundation,
and reviews and approves the Company’s response to shareholder proposals relating to
public policy issues.  






  
  
B.  
  
Membership:
The Committee’s membership is determined by the Board and consists of at least
three directors.  






  
  
C.  
  
Roles
and Responsibilities: The Committee:  






  
  
  
1.  
  
Reviews
public policy issues and trends affecting the Company.  






  
  
  
2.  
  
Offers
advice, insights and makes recommendations regarding policies, programs,
               actions and procedures which will assist the Company to respond
appropriately to                its social responsibilities and the public interest in
its business affairs,                including activities such as those related to the
environment, human resources,                labor, and community relations.  






  
  
  
3.  
  
Reviews
and advises with respect to the Company’s environmental, health                and
safety programs and compliance; human resource programs and compliance; the
               corporate contribution program; and the 3M Foundation.  






  
  
  
4.  
  
Review
shareholder proposals relating to public policy issues and recommend to
               the Board the Company’s response to such proposals.   






  
  
D.  
  
Meetings,
Reports, Charter Review, Performance Evaluation and Outside Advisors: The
Committee shall:  






  
  
  
  
1.  
Hold
regular meetings of the Committee, reporting significant matters arising
               from such meetings to the Board. A majority of the members shall
constitute a                quorum. A majority of the members present shall decide any
matter brought before                the Committee.  
  






  
  
  
  
2.  
Review
and reassess the adequacy of this Charter at least annually and submit                any
changes to the Board for approval.  
  






  
  
  
  
3.  
Conduct
an annual performance evaluation of the Committee.  
  






  
  
  
  
4.  
Have
the authority to retain such outside counsel and any other advisors as the
               Committee may deem appropriate in its sole discretion. The Committee shall
have                sole authority to approve related fees and retention terms.  
  








E-1 









ATTENDANCE CARD


Recycled Paper
40% Pre-consumer paper
10% Post-consumer paper

[LOGO] 3M


Annual Meeting
of Stockholders
----------------------
MAY 13, 2003

RIVERCENTRE
175 WEST KELLOGG BLVD.
ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA


This is your ticket to the 2003 Annual Meeting. Please show it upon arrival.
Annual Meeting activities begin at 8:30 a.m. with product demonstrations and
displays. The meeting starts at 10:00 a.m. After the meeting, lunch will be
served and the 3M store will open.

 The meeting will be held in the Roy Wilkins Auditorium. Hosts and hostesses
will show you the way after you enter the RiverCentre.

 SINCE PARKING SPACE IS LIMITED, YOU ARE URGED TO CONSIDER CARPOOLING OR PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION.










                                   3M COMPANY




                        ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS

                             TUESDAY, MAY 13, 2003

                                   3M CENTER
                           ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA 55144

[LOGO] 3M COMPANY
       3M CENTER
       ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA 55144                                           PROXY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS SOLICITS THIS PROXY FOR USE AT THE ANNUAL MEETING ON
TUESDAY, MAY 13, 2003.



The stockholder(s) whose signature(s) appear(s) on the reverse side of this
proxy card hereby appoint(s) W.J. McNerney, Jr., E.A. Brennan, R.L. Ridgway or
any of them, each with full power of substitution, as proxies, to vote all
shares of common stock in 3M Company which the stockholder(s) would be entitled
to vote on all matters which may properly come before the 2003 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders and any adjournments thereof. THE PROXIES SHALL VOTE SUBJECT TO
THE DIRECTION INDICATED ON THE REVERSE SIDE OF THIS CARD. THE PROXIES ARE
AUTHORIZED TO VOTE IN THEIR DISCRETION UPON OTHER BUSINESS AS MAY PROPERLY COME
BEFORE THE MEETING AND ANY ADJOURNMENTS OR POSTPONEMENTS THEREOF. THE PROXIES
WILL VOTE AS THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS WHERE A CHOICE IS NOT SPECIFIED.



FOR PARTICIPANTS IN 3M'S VOLUNTARY INVESTMENT PLAN (VIP), EMPLOYEE STOCK
OWNERSHIP PLAN (ESOP), AND THE 3M SAVINGS PLAN:


In accordance with the terms of the VIP, ESOP and Savings Plan, shares
allocated to my respective accounts in these plans on the record date will be
voted by the trustee, State Street Bank and Trust Company, in accordance with
the instructions indicated on the reverse side of this card, and in accordance
with the judgment of the trustee upon other business as may properly come
before the meeting and any adjournments or postponements thereof. In addition,
participants in the ESOP may instruct State Street (as ESOP trustee) how to
vote a proportionate number of both the 3M shares held by the ESOP that have
not been allocated to accounts of participants and the allocated shares for
which no instructions are received. If no instructions are provided or if this
card is not received on or before May 8, 2003, shares held in my account for
the VIP and Savings Plan will be voted by the trustee as directed by the Public
Issues Committee of the 3M Board of Directors. If no instructions are provided
or if this card is not received on or before May 8, 2003, shares held in my
account for the ESOP will be voted by the trustee in the same proportion that
the other participants in the ESOP direct the trustee to vote shares in their
ESOP accounts.


           (CONTINUED, AND TO BE SIGNED AND DATED ON THE OTHER SIDE)







VOTING INSTRUCTIONS:

                                                --------------------------------
                                                COMPANY #

                                                CONTROL #
                                                --------------------------------
THERE ARE THREE WAYS TO VOTE YOUR PROXY

VOTE BY INTERNET -- HTTP://WWW.EPROXY.COM/MMM

o  Use the Internet to vote your proxy 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Have your
   proxy card in hand when you access the Web site.
o  You will be prompted to enter your 3-digit Company Number, your 7-digit
   Control Number (these numbers are located on the proxy card) and the last 4
   digits of the U.S. Social Security Number or Tax Identification Number for
   this account to obtain your records and create an electronic ballot. If you
   do not have a U.S. SSN or TIN please leave blank.

VOTE BY TELEPHONE -- 1-800-240-6326
o  Use any touch-tone telephone to vote your proxy 24 hours a day, 7 days a
   week.
o  Have your proxy card in hand when you call. You will be prompted to enter
   your 3-digit Company Number, your 7-digit Control Number (these numbers are
   located on the proxy card) and the last 4 digits of the U.S. Social
   Security Number or Tax Identification Number for this account. If you do
   not have a U.S. SSN or TIN please enter 4 zeros.
o  Follow the recorded instructions.

VOTE BY MAIL
Mark, sign, and date your proxy card and return it in the postage paid envelope
provided so that it is received by May 12, 2003 (by May 8, 2003 for
participants in 3M's Voluntary Investment Plan, Employee Stock Ownership Plan
and the 3M Savings Plan).

YOUR INTERNET OR TELEPHONE VOTE AUTHORIZES THE NAMED PROXIES TO VOTE YOUR
SHARES IN THE SAME MANNER AS IF YOU MARKED, SIGNED, AND RETURNED YOUR PROXY
CARD. THE DEADLINE FOR INTERNET OR TELEPHONE VOTING IS 10:00 P.M. (CENTRAL
DAYLIGHT TIME) ON MAY 12, 2003 (BY MAY 8, 2003 FOR PARTICIPANTS IN 3M'S
VOLUNTARY INVESTMENT PLAN, EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN AND THE 3M SAVINGS
PLAN).

IF YOU VOTE BY THE INTERNET OR BY TELEPHONE, YOU DO NOT NEED TO MAIL BACK THE
                                  PROXY CARD.

Your vote is important. Thank you for voting.

                              [PLEASE DETACH HERE]



   THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS A VOTE "FOR" ITEMS 1 AND 2 AND "AGAINST"
                                    ITEM 3.

1. Election of directors - 01 Linda G. Alvarado   03 Robert S. Morrison    [ ] Vote FOR          [ ]  Vote WITHHELD
Nominees to 2006 Class:    02 Edward M. Liddy     04 Aulana L. Peters          all nominees           from all nominees
                                                                               (except as marked)


(INSTRUCTIONS: TO WITHHOLD AUTHORITY TO VOTE FOR ANY INDICATED NOMINEE,   ------------------------------------------------
WRITE THE NUMBER(S) OF THE NOMINEE(S) IN THE BOX PROVIDED TO THE RIGHT.)
                                                                          -------------------------------------------------
2.   Ratification of Independent Auditors                                 [ ]    For     [ ]    Against     [ ]    Abstain
3.   Stockholder Proposal relating to shareholder rights plan             [ ]    For     [ ]    Against     [ ]    Abstain
4.   In their discretion, to vote upon other matters properly coming before the
     meeting.

THIS PROXY WHEN PROPERLY EXECUTED WILL BE VOTED AS DIRECTED. IF NO DIRECTION IS
GIVEN, IT WILL BE VOTED "FOR" ITEMS 1 AND 2 AND "AGAINST" ITEM 3.


Address Change? Mark Box   [ ]   Indicate changes below:
                                               Date ___________________________________

                                       -------------------------------------------------

                                       -------------------------------------------------

                                       Signature(s) in Box
                                       Please sign exactly as your name(s) appears on Proxy. If held in joint tenancy,
                                       all persons must sign. Trustees, administrators, etc., should include title and
                                       authority. Corporations should provide full name of corporation and title of
                                       authorized officer signing the proxy.






