
DEF 14A
1
a05-4724_1def14a.htm
DEF 14A


 



UNITED
  STATES




SECURITIES
  AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION




Washington,
  D.C. 20549




 




SCHEDULE 14A




 




Proxy Statement Pursuant
  to Section 14(a) of
  the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Amendment No.     )




 




Filed by the Registrant  ý




 




Filed by a Party other than the Registrant  o




 




Check the appropriate box:




o


Preliminary Proxy Statement




o 


Confidential, for Use of the Commission Only (as
  permitted by Rule 14a-6(e)(2))




ý


Definitive Proxy Statement




o


Definitive Additional Materials




o


Soliciting Material Pursuant to §240.14a-12




 




Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company




(Name of Registrant as
  Specified In Its Charter)




 




N/A




(Name of Person(s) Filing
  Proxy Statement, if other than the Registrant)




 




Payment of Filing Fee (Check the appropriate box):




ý


No fee required.




o


Fee computed on table below per Exchange Act Rules 14a-6(i)(1) and 0-11.




 


(1)


Title of each class of securities to which transaction applies:




 


 


 




 


(2)


Aggregate number of securities to which transaction applies:




 


 


 




 


(3)


Per unit price or other underlying value of transaction computed
  pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0-11 (set forth the amount on which the filing
  fee is calculated and state how it was determined):




 


 


 




 


(4)


Proposed maximum aggregate value of transaction:




 


 


 




 


(5)


Total fee paid:




 


 


 




o


Fee paid previously with preliminary materials.




o 


Check box if any part of the fee is offset as provided by Exchange
  Act Rule 0-11(a)(2) and identify the filing for which the offsetting fee was
  paid previously. Identify the previous filing by registration statement
  number, or the Form or Schedule and the date of its filing.




 


(1)


Amount Previously Paid:




 


 


 




 


(2)


Form, Schedule or Registration Statement No.:




 


 


 




 


(3)


Filing Party:




 


 


 




 


(4)


Date Filed:




 


 


 




 


 


Persons who are to respond to the collection of
  information contained in this form are not required to respond unless the
  form displays a currently valid OMB control number.









 







W. James
McNerney, Jr.
Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer



March 28, 2005






Dear Stockholder:
I am pleased to invite you to attend 3M’s Annual
Meeting of Stockholders, which will be held on Tuesday, May 10, 2005, at
10 a.m., at the RiverCentre, 175 West Kellogg Boulevard, St. Paul,
Minnesota.
Details regarding admission to the meeting and the
business to be conducted are more fully described in the accompanying Notice of
Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement. I will report on Company operations and
discuss our plans for growth. We also will leave time for your questions and
comments.
The fine attendance of our stockholders at Annual
Meetings over the years has been very helpful in maintaining good
communication. We sincerely hope you will be able to join us. Your attendance cards to the Annual Meeting are located on the back
cover of this proxy statement.
Your vote is important. Whether or not you plan to
attend the Annual Meeting, please vote as soon as possible. You may vote on the
Internet, by telephone, or by completing and mailing a traditional proxy card.
Please review the instructions on the proxy card regarding each of these voting
options.
Thank you for your ongoing support of 3M.
Sincerely,





2005 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS
NOTICE OF ANNUAL MEETING AND PROXY STATEMENT
TABLE OF CONTENTS



Notice of Annual Meeting of
  Stockholders


 


iii


 




Proxy Statement


 


1


 




Purpose of the Annual
  Meeting


 


1


 




Annual Meeting Admission


 


1


 




Quorum


 


1


 




Stockholders Entitled to
  Vote


 


1


 




Proposals
  You Are Asked to Vote On and the Board’s Voting Recommendations


 


2


 




Required Vote


 


3


 




Voting Methods


 


3


 




Changing Your Vote


 


4


 




Counting the Vote


 


4


 




Confidentiality


 


4


 




Results of the Vote


 


4


 




Delivery of Proxy Materials


 


4


 




List of Stockholders


 


5


 




Electronic
  Delivery of Proxy Materials and Annual Report


 


5


 




Cost of Proxy Solicitation


 


5


 




Transfer Agent


 


5


 




Governance of the Company


 


6


 




Corporate Governance
  Guidelines


 


6


 




Executive Sessions


 


6


 




Presiding Director


 


6


 




Communication with
  Directors


 


6


 




Director Independence


 


6


 




3M Business Conduct
  Policies


 


8


 




Board
  Structure and Committee Membership


 


9


 




Audit Committee


 


9


 




Compensation Committee


 


10


 




Nominating and
  Governance Committee


 


10


 




Public Issues Committee


 


11


 




Nomination Process


 


12


 




Role of
  the Nominating and Governance Committee


 


12


 




Nominees
  Proposed by Stockholders for Consideration by the Committee


 


12


 




Stockholder Nominations


 


12


 



i 


 



Director Qualifications


 


12


 




Identification,
  Evaluation, and Selection of Nominees


 


13


 




Director
  Compensation and Stock Ownership Guidelines


 


14


 




Director
  Attendance at Annual Meetings of Stockholders


 


14


 




Proposals To Be Voted On


 


15


 




Proposal
  No. 1 — Election of Directors


 


15


 




Proposal No. 2 — Ratification of the
  Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


 


18


 




Proposal
  No. 3 — Approve the Adoption of the 2005 Management Stock Ownership
  Program


 


18


 




Proposal No. 4 — Stockholder
  Proposal


 


24


 




Proposal No. 5 — Stockholder
  Proposal


 


27


 




Common
  Stock Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers


 


29


 




Beneficial Ownership Table


 


30


 




Security
  Ownership of More Than 5 Percent Stockholders


 


31


 




Section 16(a) Beneficial
  Ownership Reporting Compliance


 


31


 




Executive Compensation


 


32


 




Summary Compensation Table


 


32


 




Option Grants in Last
  Fiscal Year


 


34


 




Aggregated
  Option Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End Option Values


 


35


 




Long-Term
  Incentive Plan Awards Table


 


36


 




Employment
  Contracts, Termination of Employment, and Change-in-Control Arrangements.


 


36


 




Retirement Benefits


 


40


 




Compensation
  Committee Report on Executive Compensation


 


42


 




Compensation
  Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation


 


46


 




Audit Committee Report


 


46


 




Audit Committee Policy
  on Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent
  Registered Public Accounting Firm


 


46


 




Fees
  of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


 


47


 




Stock Performance Graph


 


48


 




Requirements
  for Submission of Stockholder Proposals for Next Year’s Annual Meeting


 


49


 




Appendix A — Corporate Governance Guidelines


 


A-1


 




Appendix B — Audit Committee Charter


 


B-1


 




Appendix C — Compensation Committee Charter


 


C-1


 




Appendix D — Nominating and Governance
  Committee Charter


 


D-1


 




Appendix E — Public Issues Committee Charter


 


E-1


 




Appendix F — 2005
  Management Stock Ownership Program


 


F-1


 



 
ii




 
3M COMPANY
3M Center, St. Paul, Minnesota 55144
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS



TIME AND DATE


 


10:00 a.m. on Tuesday, May 10, 2005




PLACE


 


RiverCentre
  175 West Kellogg Boulevard
  St. Paul, Minnesota




ITEMS OF BUSINESS


 


(1)   To elect
  directors to a 3-year term.
(2)   To ratify the appointment of
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 3M’s independent registered public accounting
  firm.
(3)   To
  approve the adoption of the 2005 Management Stock Ownership Program.
(4)   To vote on two stockholder proposals if
  properly presented at the meeting. 
(5)   To transact such other business as may
  properly come before the Annual Meeting and any adjournment or postponement.




RECORD DATE


 


You are entitled to
  vote if you were a stockholder of record at the close of business on Friday,
  March 11, 2005.




ANNUAL REPORT


 


Our 2004 Annual
  Report, which is not part of the proxy soliciting materials, is enclosed.




MEETING ADMISSION


 


Two cutout admission
  tickets are included on the back cover of this proxy statement.




PROXY VOTING


 


Please submit a proxy as
  soon as possible so that your shares can be voted at the meeting in
  accordance with your instructions. You may submit your proxy 
(1)   Over the Internet,
(2)   by telephone, or 
(3)   by mail. 
For specific
  instructions, please refer to the section entitled “Voting Methods” on
  page 3 of this proxy statement and the voting instructions on the proxy
  card.



 
By Order of the Board of Directors

GREGG M. LARSON
Associate General Counsel and Secretary
THIS PROXY STATEMENT AND PROXY CARD ARE BEING DISTRIBUTED ON OR ABOUT
MARCH 28, 2005.
iii




PROXY STATEMENT
The Board of Directors (the “Board”) of 3M Company (“3M”
or the “Company”) is soliciting proxies for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
You are receiving a proxy statement because you own shares of 3M common stock
that entitle you to vote at the meeting. By use of a proxy, you can vote
whether or not you attend the meeting. The proxy statement describes the
matters we would like you to vote on and provides information on those matters
so you can make an informed decision.
The information included in
this proxy statement relates to proposals to be voted on at the meeting (if
properly presented), voting process, compensation of directors and our most
highly paid officers, and other required information.
Purpose of the Annual Meeting
The purpose of the Annual
Meeting is to elect directors and to conduct the business described in the
Notice of Annual Meeting.
Annual Meeting Admission
Only stockholders are invited to attend the meeting. An admission ticket
or proof of ownership of 3M stock, along with personal identification, must be
presented in order to be admitted to the Annual Meeting. If you are a
stockholder of record, your admission ticket is on the back of this proxy
statement. If your shares are held in the name of a bank, broker or other holder
of record, you must bring a brokerage statement or other proof of ownership
with you to the Annual Meeting, or obtain an admission ticket in advance.
Tickets are also available on the Internet voting site — www.eproxy.com/mmm.
No
cameras, recording equipment, electronic devices, large bags, briefcases, or
packages will be permitted in the Annual Meeting.
Quorum
A quorum is the minimum number
of shares required to hold a meeting. Under 3M’s Bylaws, a quorum requires that
a majority of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote at the meeting
must be represented in person or by proxy at the meeting. Both abstentions and
broker non-votes are counted as present for determining the presence of a
quorum. Broker non-votes, however, are not counted as shares present and
entitled to be voted with respect to the matter on which the broker has not
voted. Thus, broker non-votes will not affect the outcome of any of the matters
to be voted on at the Annual Meeting. Generally, broker non-votes occur when
shares held by a broker for a beneficial owner are not voted with respect to a
particular proposal because (1) the broker has not received voting
instructions from the beneficial owner and (2) the broker lacks
discretionary voting power to vote such shares.
Stockholders Entitled to Vote
Each share of our common stock outstanding as of the
close of business on March 11, 2005, the record date, is entitled to one
vote at the Annual Meeting on each matter properly brought before the meeting.
As of that date, there were 772,204,170 shares of common stock issued and
outstanding.
Most 3M stockholders
hold their shares through a stockbroker, bank, trustee, or other nominee rather
than directly in their own name. As summarized below, there are some distinctions
between shares held of record and those owned beneficially:
·       STOCKHOLDER
OF RECORD — If your shares are registered directly in your name with 3M’s
Transfer Agent, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., you are considered the stockholder of
record of those 
1 


shares and these proxy materials are being sent
directly to you by 3M. As the stockholder of record, you have the right to
grant your voting proxy directly to 3M or to vote in person at the meeting.
·       BENEFICIAL
OWNER — If your shares are held in a stock brokerage account, by a bank,
trustee, or other nominee, you are considered the beneficial owner of shares
held in street name and these proxy materials are being forwarded to you by
your broker, trustee, or nominee who is considered the stockholder of record of
those shares. As the beneficial owner, you have the right to direct your
broker, trustee or nominee on how to vote and are also invited to attend the
meeting. However, since you are not the stockholder of record, you may not vote
these shares in person at the meeting. Your broker, trustee, or nominee is
obligated to provide you with a voting instruction card for you to use.
·       If your shares are held in
your account in the 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership
Plan or the 3M Savings Plan, you are considered the beneficial owner of these
shares and the trustee of the plans is the stockholder of record. Participants
in 3M’s Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M
Savings Plan may direct the trustee how to vote the shares allocated to their
account by following the voting instructions contained on the proxy card. Participants
in 3M’s Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan may also
direct the trustee how to vote a proportionate number of allocated shares of
common stock for which it has not received direction, and shares not allocated
to individual participant accounts by following the same voting instructions. If
you fail to direct the trustee how to vote your shares by following these
voting instructions, the trustee will vote your shares as described in the
voting instructions.
Proposals
You Are Asked to Vote On and the Board’s Voting Recommendations
The
following proposals are scheduled to be voted on at the meeting. 3M’s Board
recommends that you vote your shares as indicated below.



Proposals:


The Board’s
  Voting Recommendations:




 1.   The election of directors for a 3-year
  term.


“FOR”
  each nominee
  to the Board




 2.   The ratification of the appointment of
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 3M’s independent registered public accounting
  firm.


“FOR”




 3.   Approve the adoption of the 2005 Management
  Stock Ownership Program.


“FOR”




 4.   Consideration of a stockholder proposal
  regarding animal testing.


“AGAINST”




 5.   Consideration of a stockholder proposal
  regarding 3M’s business operations in China.


“AGAINST”



 
Other than the proposals
described in this proxy statement, the Board is not aware of any other matters
to be presented for a vote at the Annual Meeting. If you grant a proxy by telephone,
Internet, or by signing and returning your proxy card, any of the persons named
as proxy holders — W. James McNerney, Jr., 3M’s Chairman and CEO, Edward
A. Brennan, and Rozanne L. Ridgway ­­— will have the discretion to vote your
shares on any additional matters properly presented for a vote at the 
2 


meeting. If
any of our nominees is unavailable as a candidate for director, the above-named
proxy holders will vote your proxy for another candidate or candidates as may
be nominated by the Board of Directors.
Required Vote
Director Nominees — The nominees for election as
directors at the Annual Meeting will be elected by a plurality of the votes
cast at the meeting. This means that the director nominee with the most votes
for a particular slot is elected for that slot. Votes withheld from one or more
director nominees will have no effect on the election of any director from whom
votes are withheld.
All other proposals require
the affirmative “FOR” vote of a majority of those shares present in person or
represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the matter. If you
are a beneficial owner and do not provide the stockholder of record with voting
instructions, your shares may constitute broker non-votes, as described in the
section above entitled “Quorum.”         In
tabulating the voting result for any particular proposal, shares that
constitute broker non-votes are not considered entitled to vote on that
proposal. The stockholder proposals are presented as a request to the Board to
take action. Affirmative votes for these proposals will inform the Board about
the level of support for these proposals.
Voting Methods
If you hold shares directly as the stockholder of
record, you may vote by granting a proxy or, if you hold shares beneficially in
street name, by submitting voting instructions to your broker or nominee. If
you own shares beneficially as a participant in the 3M Voluntary Investment
Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M Savings Plan, you may vote by
submitting voting instructions to the trustee. In most instances, you will be
able to do this over the Internet, by telephone, or by mail. Please refer to
the summary instructions below and those included on your proxy card or, for
shares held in street name, the voting instruction card included by your broker
or nominee.
The Internet and
telephone voting procedures are designed to authenticate stockholders by use of
a control number and to allow you to confirm that your instructions have been
properly recorded. If you vote by telephone or on the Internet, you do not need
to return your proxy card. Telephone and Internet voting for stockholders of
record will be available 24 hours a day, and will close at 12:00 p.m.
(Central Time) on the day before the Annual Meeting. Participants in 3M’s
Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan and the 3M Savings
Plan may instruct the trustee how to vote their shares via the Internet, by
telephone, or by signing and returning the proxy card by 5:00 p.m.
(Central Time) on May 5, 2005.
·       VOTE
BY INTERNET — www.eproxy.com/mmm — If you have Internet access, you may
submit your proxy from any location in the world 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Have your proxy card and the last four digits of your Social Security Number in
hand when you access the Web site. When prompted, enter the last four digits of
your Social Security Number, your 3-digit company number and the 7-digit
number from the upper right corner of the proxy card to create an electronic
ballot.
·       VOTE
BY TELEPHONE — 1-800-560-1965 — If you live in the United
States, you may use any touch-tone telephone to vote your proxy toll-free 24
hours a day, 7 days a week. Have your proxy card in hand when you call. When
prompted, enter the 3-digit company number and the 7-digit number
from the upper right corner of the proxy card. Follow the recorded
instructions.
·       VOTE
BY MAIL — You may do this by signing your proxy card or, for shares held in
street name, the voting instruction card included by your broker or nominee and
mailing it. If you 
3 


provide specific voting instructions, your shares will
be voted as you instruct. If you sign, but do not provide instructions, your
shares will be voted as the Board recommends. Mark, sign, and date your proxy
card and return it in the postage-paid envelope provided so that it is received
by May 9, 2005.
All shares that have been
properly voted and not revoked will be voted at the Annual Meeting.
Changing Your Vote
You may change your proxy
instructions at any time prior to the vote at the Annual Meeting. For shares
held directly in your name, you may accomplish this by granting a new proxy or
by voting in person at the Annual Meeting. For shares held beneficially by you,
you may change your vote by submitting new voting instructions to your broker
or nominee.
Counting the Vote
In the election of directors, you may vote “FOR” all
of the nominees or your vote may be “WITHHELD” from one or more of the
nominees. For the other proposals, you may vote “FOR,” “AGAINST,” or “ABSTAIN.”
If you “ABSTAIN,” it has the same effect as a vote “AGAINST.”  If you sign your proxy card or broker voting
instruction card with no further instructions, your shares will be voted in
accordance with the recommendations of the Board. Shares held in your account
in the 3M Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the 3M
Savings Plan will be voted by the trustee as described in “Stockholders
Entitled to Vote” on page 1.
Representatives of Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A., 3M’s transfer agent, will tabulate the votes and act as the
inspectors of election.
Confidentiality
The Company’s Board of
Directors has a policy that all stockholder proxies, ballots, and tabulations
that identify stockholders are to be maintained in confidence. No such document
will be available for examination, and the identity and vote of any stockholder
will not be disclosed, except as necessary to meet legal requirements and allow
the inspectors of election to certify the results of the stockholder vote. The
policy also provides that inspectors of election for stockholder votes must be
independent and cannot be employees of the Company. Occasionally, stockholders
provide written comments on their proxy card that may be forwarded to 3M
management.
Results of the Vote
We will announce preliminary
voting results at the meeting and publish final results in our Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending June 30, 2005. A news
release with voting results will be available on our Web site www.3M.com/profile/pressbox/index.jhtml.
Delivery of Proxy Materials
Securities and Exchange Commission rules now
allow us to deliver a single copy of an annual report and proxy statement to
any household at which two or more stockholders reside, if we believe the
stockholders are members of the same family. This rule benefits both you
and the Company. We believe it eliminates irritating duplicate mailings that
stockholders living at the same address receive and it reduces our printing and
mailing costs. This rule applies to any annual reports, proxy statements,
proxy statements combined with a prospectus, or information statements. Each
stockholder will continue to receive a separate proxy card or voting
instruction card.
Your household may have received a single set of proxy
materials this year. If you prefer to receive your own copy now or in future
years, please request a duplicate set by contacting our 
4 


transfer agent, Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. at 1-800-401-1952 (U.S.), 651-450-4064
(outside the U.S.), www.wellsfargo.com/shareownerservices, or in writing
to 161 North Concord Exchange, South St. Paul, MN 55075.
If a broker or other nominee
holds your shares, you may continue to receive some duplicate mailings. Certain
brokers will eliminate duplicate account mailings by allowing stockholders to
consent to such elimination, or through implied consent if a stockholder does
not request continuation of duplicate mailings. Since not all brokers and
nominees may offer stockholders the opportunity this year to eliminate
duplicate mailings, you may need to contact your broker or nominee directly to
discontinue duplicate mailings to your household.
List of Stockholders
The names of stockholders of
record entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting will be available at the Annual
Meeting and for ten days prior to the meeting for any purpose germane to the
meeting, between the hours of 7:45 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. (Central Time),
at our principal executive offices at 3M Center, St. Paul, Minnesota, by
contacting the Secretary of the Company.
Electronic
Delivery of Proxy Materials and Annual Report
We are able to distribute the
Annual Report and proxy statement to 3M stockholders in a fast and efficient
manner via the Internet. This reduces the amount of paper delivered to a
stockholder’s address and eliminates the cost of sending these documents by
mail. Stockholders may elect to view all future annual reports and proxy
statements on the Internet instead of receiving them by mail. If you choose to
view these materials online, you will continue to receive a proxy card in the
mail. You may make this election when voting your proxy this year: simply
follow the instructions to vote via the Internet or go directly to www.econsent.com/mmm
to register your consent. Have your account number (found above your name and
address on your dividend check stub) and your Social Security Number (if you
have one) available. Your election to view proxy materials online continues
until you revoke it. Future proxy cards will contain the Internet Web site
address and instructions to view the materials. You will continue to have the
option to vote your shares by telephone, mail, or via the Internet.
Cost of Proxy Solicitation
3M will pay for the cost of
preparing, assembling, printing, mailing, and distributing these proxy
materials. You will need to obtain your own Internet access if you choose to
access the proxy materials and/or vote over the Internet. In addition to
mailing these proxy materials, the solicitation of proxies or votes may be made
in person, by telephone, or electronic communication by our directors,
officers, and employees, who do not receive any additional compensation for
these solicitation activities. We have hired Georgeson Shareholder
Communications, Inc. to assist us in the distribution of proxy materials
and the solicitation of votes. We will pay Georgeson Shareholder Communications, Inc.,
a fee of $20,000 plus expenses for these services. We will also reimburse
brokerage houses and other custodians, nominees, and fiduciaries for their
reasonable out-of-pocket expenses for forwarding proxy and solicitation
materials to beneficial owners of stock.
Transfer Agent
Our Transfer Agent is Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. All
communications concerning stockholders of record accounts, including address
changes, name changes, common stock transfer requirements, and similar issues
can be handled by contacting Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. at 1-800-401-1952
(U.S.), 651-450-4064 (outside the U.S.), www.wellsfargo.com/shareownerservices,
or in writing, 161 North Concord Exchange, South St. Paul, MN 55075.
5




GOVERNANCE OF THE COMPANY
Corporate Governance Guidelines
The Board has adopted
Corporate Governance Guidelines that, along with the charters of the Board
committees, provide the framework for the governance of the Company. The Board’s
Nominating and Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing and reviewing
the Guidelines at least annually, and recommending any proposed changes to the
Board for approval. The Corporate Governance Guidelines are available on our
Web site at www.3M.com, under Investor Relations — Corporate Governance.
The Guidelines and charters of the Board committees are also attached to this
proxy statement as Appendices A-E.
Executive Sessions
Independent
directors regularly meet in executive sessions without the Chairman/CEO
or other members of management present to review the criteria upon which the
performance of the Chairman and CEO is based, the performance of the Chairman
and CEO against that criteria, to ratify the compensation of the Chairman and
CEO as approved by the Compensation Committee and to discuss any other relevant
matters.
Presiding Director
The chairs of the Audit,
Compensation, Nominating and Governance, and Public Issues Committees of the
Board may chair executive sessions of the independent directors at which the
principal items to be considered are within the scope of the committee chair’s
authority. The Board believes that this practice ensures leadership at all
executive sessions of the independent directors.
Communication with Directors
The Board of Directors has
adopted the following process for stockholders to send communications to
members of the Board. Stockholders may communicate with the chairs of the Audit, Compensation,
Nominating and Governance, and Public Issues Committees of the Board, or
with any of our other independent directors, by sending a letter to the
following address: 3M Company, c/o Corporate Secretary, 3M Center, Building
0220-13-W-39, St. Paul, MN 55144-1000.
Director Independence
The Board believes in having a substantial majority of
independent directors on the 3M Board. A director is “independent” if the Board
affirmatively determines that the director has no material relationship with 3M
(including its consolidated subsidiaries) directly or as a partner, shareholder
or officer of an organization that has a relationship with 3M. The Board has
established the following guidelines to assist it in determining director
independence that conform to, or are more exacting than the independence requirements
in the New York Stock Exchange listing standards (NYSE Rules). In addition to
applying these guidelines, the Board will consider all relevant facts and
circumstances in making an independence determination not only from the
standpoint of the director, but also from that of persons or organizations with
which the director has an affiliation.
6 


1.               In
no event will a director be considered independent if:
a.                Employment Relationship — A director is,
or has been within the last three years, an employee of 3M, or whose immediate
family member(1), is or has been within the last three years, an
executive officer of 3M;
b.               Payments >$100,000 — A director who
received, or whose immediate family member received, more than $100,000 per
year in direct compensation from 3M (other than director fees) within the last
three years;
c.                Auditor Relationships. (i) A
director, or whose immediate family member, is a current partner of 3M’s
internal or external auditor; (ii) a director is a current employee of
such a firm; (iii) a director has an immediate family member who is a
current employee of such a firm and who participates in the firm’s audit,
assurance or tax compliance (but not tax planning) practice; or (iv) a
director, or whose immediate family member, was within the last three years
(but is no longer) a partner or employee of such a firm who personally worked
on 3M’s audit within that time;
d.               Compensation Committee Interlock — A 3M
executive officer is on the compensation committee of the board of directors of
a company which employs the 3M director or an immediate family member as an
executive officer;
e.                Commercial Relationships — A director is a
current employee, or an immediate family member is a current executive officer,
of a company that has made payments to, or received payments from, 3M for
property or services in an amount which, in of the last three years, exceeds
the greater of $1 million, or two percent of the director’s company’s
consolidated gross revenues.
2.               Audit
Committee members may not accept any consulting, advisory, or other
compensatory fee from 3M, other than directors’ fees.
3.               The
following commercial relationships will not be considered to be material
relationships that would impair a director’s independence:
a.                If
a 3M director is an executive officer or employee, or if an immediate family
member is an executive officer, of another company that does business with 3M
and the sales by that company to 3M or purchases by that company from 3M, in
any single year within the last three years, are less than or equal to one
percent of the annual consolidated gross revenues of that company; or
b.               If
a 3M director is an executive officer or employee, or if an immediate family
member is an executive officer, of another company which is indebted to 3M, or
to which 3M is indebted, and the total amount of either company’s indebtedness
to the other, in any single year within the last three years, is less than or
equal to one percent of the other company’s total consolidated assets.
4.               Charitable
relationships will not be considered to be material relationships that would
impair a director’s independence if a 3M director or immediate family member
serves as an officer, director or trustee of a charitable organization, and 3M’s
discretionary charitable contributions to the organization are less than or
equal to one percent of that organization’s consolidated annual gross revenues.




(1)  New York Stock Exchange Rule
303A(2)(b) defines "immediate family" to include a person's spouse,
parents, children, siblings, mothers- and fathers-in-law, sons- and
daughters-in-law, brothers- and sisters-in-law, and
anyone (other than employees) who share such person's home.
7 


5.    The Board
will annually make and publicly disclose its independence determination for
each director. The Board may determine that a director who has a relationship
that exceeds the limits described in paragraphs 3 (provided that such a
relationship would not constitute a bar to independence under the NYSE Rules)
or 4 is nonetheless independent. The Company will explain in the next proxy
statement the basis for any Board determination that a relationship is
immaterial despite the fact that it does not meet the categorical independence
guidelines. For example, if a director is the CEO of a company that purchases
products and services from 3M that are more than one percent of that company’s
annual revenues, the independent directors could determine, after considering
all of the relevant circumstances, that such a relationship was immaterial, and
that the director would be considered independent under the NYSE Rules.
6.               The Company will
not make any personal loans or extensions of credit to directors. All directors
are required to deal at arm’s length with 3M and its subsidiaries and to
disclose circumstances material to the director that might be perceived as a
conflict of interest.
The Board of Directors has
determined that the following directors are independent under these
guidelines:  Linda G. Alvarado, Edward A.
Brennan, Vance D. Coffman, Michael L. Eskew, Edward M. Liddy, Robert S.
Morrison, Aulana L. Peters, Rozanne L. Ridgway, Kevin W. Sharer, and Louis W.
Sullivan. The Board has also determined that no members of the Audit Committee
received any compensation from the Company other than directors’ fees.
3M Business Conduct Policies
More than a century of operating with honesty and
integrity has earned 3M trust from our customers, credibility with our
communities, and dedication from our employees. All of our employees, including
our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Principal Accounting
Officer, are required to abide by 3M’s business conduct policies to ensure that
our business is conducted in a consistently legal and ethical manner. These
policies form the foundation of a comprehensive process that includes
compliance with corporate policies and procedures and a companywide focus on
uncompromising honesty and integrity in every aspect of our operations. Our
business conduct policies cover many topics, including antitrust and
competition law, conflicts of interest, financial reporting, protection of
confidential information, and compliance with all laws and regulations
applicable to the conduct of our business.
Employees are required to report any conduct that they
believe in good faith to be an actual or apparent violation of the business
conduct policies. The Audit Committee has adopted procedures to receive,
retain, and treat complaints received regarding accounting, internal accounting
controls, or auditing matters, and to allow for the confidential and anonymous
submission by employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or
auditing matters.
The Board of Directors adopted a Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics for directors of the Company. This Code incorporates
long-standing principles of conduct the Company and the Board follow to ensure
the Company’s business and the activities of the Board are conducted with
integrity, adherence to the highest ethical standards, and in compliance with
the law.
The Company’s Business Conduct
Policies for employees and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for
Directors are available on our web site at www.3M.com under Investor
Relations — Corporate Governance.
8 


BOARD STRUCTURE AND COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP
The Board is divided into three classes serving
staggered three-year terms. The Board has eleven directors and the following
four Committees: Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Governance, and Public
Issues. The membership during 2004 and the function of each Committee are
described below.
During 2004, the Board of Directors held five regular
meetings. The Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Governance, and Public Issues
Committees held eight (three of which were telephonic meetings), five, four,
and three regularly scheduled meetings, respectively, during 2004. All of our
directors attended all of the regularly scheduled meetings of the Board and
Board Committees on which they serve, except for one director who, because of
jury duty, was unable to attend one regularly scheduled Board meeting and two
Board Committee meetings on which the director serves.
The Board
and each Committee conducted an evaluation of their performance in 2004.



 Name of Director


 


 


Audit


 


 


Compensation


 


 


Nominating
  and
  Governance


 


 


Public
  Issues


 




 Nonemployee Directors:


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Linda G. Alvarado


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 




 Edward A. Brennan


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


*


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Vance D. Coffman


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Michael L. Eskew


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 




 Edward M. Liddy


 


 


 


X


*


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Robert S. Morrison


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Aulana L. Peters


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


*


 




 Rozanne L. Ridgway


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


X


*


 


 


 


 


 


 




 Kevin W. Sharer


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 




 Louis W. Sullivan


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


X


 


 



X = Committee Member; * = Chair
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee
assists the Board in its oversight of the integrity of the Company’s financial
statements, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the
qualifications, independence, and performance of the Company’s independent
registered public accounting firm (the “Independent Accounting Firm”), and the
performance of the Company’s internal auditing department. In addition, the
Committee:
·       Reviews
the annual audited and quarterly consolidated financial statements;
·       Reviews
the Company’s financial reporting process and disclosure and internal controls
and procedures, including major issues regarding accounting principles and
financial statement presentation, and critical accounting policies to be used
in the consolidated financial statements;
·       Reviews
and discusses with management and the Independent Accounting Firm the Company’s
internal controls report and the Independent Accounting Firm’s attestation of
the report;
·       By
delegation to the Chair, reviews earnings press releases prior to issuance;
·       Appoints,
oversees, and approves compensation of the Independent Accounting Firm;
9 


·       Reviews
with the Independent Accounting Firm the scope of the annual audit, including
fees and staffing, and approves all audit and permitted non-audit services
provided by the Independent Accounting Firm;
·       Reviews
findings and recommendations of the Independent Accounting Firm and management’s
response to the recommendations of the Independent Accounting Firm;
·       Discusses
policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management, the Company’s
major risk exposures, and the steps management has taken to monitor and
mitigate such exposures; and
·       Reviews
compliance with the Company’s business conduct policies.
The Board of Directors has
determined that all of the Audit Committee members are “independent,” “financially
literate,” and have “accounting or related financial management expertise”
under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The Board has also
determined that all of the Audit Committee members — Edward M. Liddy (chair),
Linda G. Alvarado, Vance D. Coffman, Michael L. Eskew, and Aulana L. Peters —
are “audit committee financial experts” as that term is defined by applicable
SEC regulations. In addition, the Board has determined that service on more
than three other audit committees by Aulana L. Peters does not impair her
ability to serve effectively on the Company’s Audit Committee because Ms. Peters
is retired and has the time to devote to her responsibilities and has
considerable expertise in audit committee matters. The charter of the Audit
Committee is available at www.3M.com under Investor Relations —
Corporate Governance — Committee Composition and attached as Appendix B to this
proxy statement.
Compensation Committee
The Compensation
Committee reviews the Company’s compensation practices and policies, annually
reviews and approves (subject to ratification by the independent directors of
the Board) the compensation for the CEO, annually reviews and approves the
compensation for the other senior executives, evaluates CEO performance, and
annually prepares a report on executive compensation for inclusion in the
Company’s proxy statement. In addition, the Committee:
·       Approves,
subject to ratification by the independent directors of the Board, employment
agreements and severance arrangements for the CEO, as appropriate;
·       Approves
for the senior executives of the Company (other than the CEO) employment
agreements and severance arrangements, as appropriate; and
·       Interprets
and supervises the administration of the Company’s stock and long-term
incentive compensation programs, and determines the employees who receive
awards and the size of their awards under such programs.
The Board of Directors has
determined that all Compensation Committee members are “independent” under the
New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The Board has also determined that
each Compensation Committee member qualifies as a “Non-Employee Director” under
Rule 16b-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and as an “Outside
Director” under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. The
charter of the Compensation Committee is available at www.3M.com under
Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — Committee Composition and attached
as Appendix C to this proxy statement.
Nominating
and Governance Committee
The Nominating and
Governance Committee establishes Board membership criteria, assists the Board
by identifying individuals qualified to become Board members, recommends to the
Board 
10 


matters of
corporate governance, facilitates the annual review of the performance of the
Board and its Committees, and periodically reviews CEO and management
succession plans. In addition, the Committee:
·       Selects
and recommends candidates to the Board of Directors to be submitted for
election at the Annual Meeting and candidates to fill any vacancies on the
Board, including stockholder nominees for director (submitted in accordance
with the Company’s Bylaws). The Committee considers all candidates in light of
the Board membership criteria adopted by the Board of Directors;
·       Reviews
and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning the composition
and size of the Board and its Committees, Board membership criteria, frequency
of meetings, and directors’ fees;
·       Reviews
the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines at least annually, and recommends
any proposed changes to the Board for approval;
·       Develops
and recommends to the Board standards to be applied in making determinations on
the types of relationships that constitute material relationships between the
Company and a director for purposes of determining director independence;
·       Develops
and recommends to the Board for its approval an annual self-assessment process
of the Board and its Committees and oversees the process; and
·       Reviews
periodically with the Chairman/CEO succession plans relating to positions held
by elected corporate officers, and makes recommendations to the Board with
respect to the selection of individuals to occupy these positions.
The Board of Directors has
determined that all Nominating and Governance Committee members are “independent”
under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The charter of the
Nominating and Governance Committee is available at www.3M.com under
Investor Relations — Corporate Governance — Committee Composition and attached
as Appendix D to this proxy statement.
Public Issues Committee
The Public Issues
Committee reviews public policy issues and trends affecting the Company,
reviews and advises with respect to the Company’s environmental, health and
safety programs and compliance, human resources, the corporate contribution
program and the 3M Foundation, and reviews and approves the Company’s response
to stockholder proposals relating to public policy issues. In addition, the
Committee:
·       Monitors
the Company’s corporate citizenship activities; and
·       Offers
advice, insights, and makes recommendations regarding policies, programs,
actions, and procedures which will enable this Company to continue to respond
appropriately to its social responsibilities and the public interest in its
business affairs, including such activities as those related to the
environment, human resources, labor, and community relations.
The Board of Directors has
determined that all Public Issues Committee members are “independent” under the
New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The charter of the Public Issues
Committee is available at www.3M.com under Investor Relations —
Corporate Governance — Committee Composition and attached as Appendix E to this
proxy statement.
11 


NOMINATION PROCESS
Role of
the Nominating and Governance Committee
The Nominating and Governance
Committee (“Committee”) identifies individuals that the Committee believes are
qualified to become Board members in accordance with the Board Membership
Criteria set forth below, and recommends selected individuals to the Board for
nomination to stand for election at the next meeting of stockholders of the
Company in which directors will be elected. In the event there is a vacancy on
the Board between meetings of stockholders, the Committee identifies
individuals that the Committee believes are qualified to become Board members
in accordance with the Board Membership Criteria set forth below, and
recommends one or more of such individuals for appointment to the Board.
Nominees
Proposed by Stockholders for Consideration by the Committee
The Committee has a
policy to consider properly submitted stockholder nominees for candidates for
membership on the Board of Directors. Stockholders proposing individuals for
consideration by the Committee must include at least the following information
about the proposed nominee:  the proposed
nominee’s name, age, business or residence address, principal occupation or
employment, and whether such person has given written consent to being named in
the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected. Stockholders
should send the required information about the nominee to:
Corporate Secretary
3M Company
3M Center
Building 0220-13-W-39
St. Paul, MN 55144-1000.
In order for an individual
proposed by a stockholder to be considered by the Committee for recommendation
as a Board nominee, the Corporate Secretary must receive the proposal no later
than 5 p.m. Central Time on November 28, 2005. Such proposals must be
sent via registered, certified, or express mail (or other means that allows the
stockholder to determine when the proposal was received by the Company). The
Corporate Secretary will send properly submitted stockholder proposed nominations
to the Committee Chair for consideration at a future Committee meeting.
Individuals proposed by stockholders in accordance with these procedures will
receive the same consideration that individuals identified to the Committee
through other means receive.
Stockholder Nominations
In addition, 3M’s Bylaws
permit stockholders to nominate directors at an annual meeting of stockholders
or at a special meeting at which directors are to be elected in accordance with
the notice of meeting. Stockholders intending to nominate a person for election
as a director must comply with the requirements set forth in the Company’s
Bylaws. Our Bylaws require, among other things, that the Corporate Secretary
receive written notice from the record stockholder no earlier than January 9,
2006 and no later than February 8, 2006. The notice must contain the
information required by the Bylaws, a copy of which is available upon request
to the Corporate Secretary. Nominations received after February 8, 2006,
will not be acted upon at the Annual Meeting.
Director Qualifications
The Committee
periodically reviews with the Board the requisite skills and characteristics of
its members. 3M’s Corporate Governance Guidelines contain Board Membership
Criteria that apply to nominees for a position on 3M’s Board. The Committee
periodically reviews with the Board the 
12 


appropriate
skills and characteristics required of Board members given the current Board
composition. It is the intent of the Board that the Board, itself, will be a
high performance organization creating competitive advantage for the Company.
To perform as such, the Board will be comprised of individuals who have
distinguished records of leadership and success in their arena of activity and
who will make substantial contributions to Board operations and effectively
represent the interests of all stockholders. The Committee’s and the Board’s
assessment of Board candidates includes, but is not limited to, consideration
of:
(i)               Roles and
contributions valuable to the business community;
(ii)            Personal qualities of
leadership, character, judgment, and whether the candidate possesses and
maintains throughout service on the Board a reputation in the community at
large of integrity, trust, respect, competence, and adherence to the highest
ethical standards;
(iii)         Relevant knowledge and
diversity of background and experience in such things as business,
manufacturing, technology, finance and accounting, marketing, international
business, government, and the like; or
(iv)         Whether the candidate is
free of conflicts and has the time required for preparation, participation, and
attendance at all meetings.
In addition to these minimum
requirements, the Committee will also evaluate whether the nominee’s skills are
complementary to the existing Board members’ skills, the Board’s needs for
particular expertise in fields such as business, manufacturing, technology,
financial, marketing, international, governmental, or other areas of expertise,
and assess the nominees’ impact on Board dynamics and effectiveness.
Identification,
Evaluation, and Selection of Nominees
The Committee periodically reviews the appropriate
size and composition of the Board and anticipates future vacancies and needs of
the Board. In the event the Committee recommends an increase in the size of the
Board or a vacancy occurs, the Committee considers qualified nominees from
several sources, including current Board members and nominees recommended by
stockholders and other persons.
The Committee may from time to time retain a director
search firm to help the Committee identify qualified director nominees for
consideration by the Committee.
The Committee evaluates
qualified director nominees at regular or special Committee meetings against
the current Board Membership Criteria described above and reviews qualified
director nominees with the Board. The Committee and the Chairman of the Board
interview candidates that meet the Board Membership Criteria and the Committee
selects nominees that best suit the Board’s current needs and recommends one or
more of such individuals for election to the Board.
13 


DIRECTOR COMPENSATION AND STOCK OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES
The
following table provides information on 3M’s compensation and reimbursement
practices during 2004 for nonemployee directors.



 


 


Current


 




Annual Director
  Retainer


 


$


150,000


 




Minimum Percentage of
  Annual Retainer to be paid in 3M Stock


 


63


%




Board Meeting
  Attendance Fees per Meeting


 


0


 




Committee Meeting
  Attendance Fees per Meeting


 


0


 




Additional Retainer
  for Committee Chair


 


$


7,000


 




Reimbursement for Expenses
  Attendant to Board Membership


 


Yes


 



 
Nonemployee directors received $95,000 of the total
annual retainer of $150,000 in common stock of the Company pursuant to the
terms of the Company’s 1992 Directors Stock Ownership Program. Nonemployee
directors may elect to defer payment of all or a portion of the foregoing
retainers payable in cash through a deferred cash or common stock equivalents
account, and retainers payable in stock through a deferred common stock
equivalents account. The nonemployee directors also may elect to receive common
stock of the Company at current fair market value, in lieu of cash retainer.
Information regarding accumulated deferred stock is set forth in the section
entitled “Common Stock Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers.”  Currently, 91 percent of director
compensation is paid in 3M stock.
Stock Ownership Guidelines — The Board also approved
stock ownership guidelines that provide that each director should attain over
her or his three-year term an investment position in 3M’s stock (including
deferred stock) equal to two times the annual retainer. All directors currently
meet these stock ownership guidelines.
Matching Gift Program — The
nonemployee directors are eligible to participate in the matching gift program
on the same terms as 3M employees. Under this program, the 3M Foundation will
match up to a total of $5,000 a year in contributions by the director to
eligible institutions of higher education or public broadcasting organizations.
DIRECTOR ATTENDANCE AT ANNUAL MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS
The Company has a long-standing policy that directors
are expected to attend the Annual Meeting of Stockholders unless extenuating
circumstances prevent them from attending. All directors attended last year’s
Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
14




PROPOSALS TO BE VOTED
ON
PROPOSAL
NO. 1
ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
The Board is divided into three classes serving
staggered three-year terms. Directors for each class are elected at the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders held in the year in which the term for their class
expires.
The terms of three directors will expire at the 2005
Annual Meeting. Directors elected at the 2005 Annual Meeting will hold office
for a three-year term expiring at the Annual Meeting in 2008 (or until their
respective successors are elected and qualified, or until their earlier death,
resignation, or removal). There are no family relationships among the Company’s
executive officers and directors.
The
persons named as proxies intend to vote the proxies for the election of the
nominees to the Board of Directors. If any of the nominees should be
unavailable to serve as a director, an event which is not anticipated, the
persons named as proxies reserve full discretion to vote for any other persons
who may be nominated.
Nominees
for Terms to Expire at the 2008 Annual Meeting:







 


Vance D. Coffman, 60, Chairman of the Board,
  Lockheed Martin Corporation, a high technology aerospace and defense company.
  Dr. Coffman served in various executive capacities at Lockheed Martin
  Corporation before becoming Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 1998. He
  retired as Chief Executive Officer in 2004. Dr. Coffman is on the board
  of the following public companies in addition to 3M and Lockheed Martin
  Corporation: Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Deere & Company.
Director since 2002.




 


 


 




 



 


Rozanne L. Ridgway, 69, Former Assistant
  Secretary of State for Europe and Canada. Ambassador Ridgway
  served in the U.S. Foreign Service from 1957 to 1989, including assignments
  as Ambassador for Oceans and Fisheries Affairs, Ambassador to Finland and to
  the German Democratic Republic, and from 1985 and until her retirement in 1989,
  Assistant Secretary of State for European and Canadian Affairs. Ambassador
  Ridgway served as President until 1993 and Co-Chair until mid-1996 of the
  Atlantic Council of the United States, an association to promote better
  understanding of major foreign policy issues. Ambassador Ridgway is on the
  boards of the following public companies in addition to 3M: The Boeing
  Company, Emerson Electric Co., Manpower Inc., and Sara Lee Corporation. She
  is also a director in three funds in the American Funds complex.
Director since 1989.




 


 


 




 



 


Louis W. Sullivan, 71, President Emeritus,
  Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia. Since completion
  of his medical training, Dr. Sullivan has held both professional and
  administrative positions in health care facilities and medical training
  institutions. He joined Morehouse College as Professor of Biology and
  Medicine in 1975 and was the founding dean and director of the Medical
  Education Program at the college. He was named President of Morehouse School
  of Medicine in 1981. He served as Secretary, United States Department of
  Health and Human Services, from 1989 to 1993. He returned to Morehouse School
  of Medicine in 1993. Dr. Sullivan retired as President in 2002. Dr. Sullivan
  is on the boards of the following public companies in addition to 3M:
  Bio-Sante Pharmaceuticals, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, CIGNA Corporation,
  Georgia-Pacific Corporation, Henry Schein, Inc., Inhibitex, Inc., and United
  Therapeutics Corporation. Dr. Sullivan will retire from the Board of
  Directors at the May 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders in accordance with
  the Board’s retirement policy described in the Corporate Governance
  Guidelines in Appendix A. Dr. Sullivan also informed the Company that he
  will retire from the boards of several other public companies in 2006.
Director
  since 1993.



 
The Board
of Directors recommends a vote “FOR” the election to the Board of each of the
foregoing nominees. Proxies solicited by the Board of Directors will be voted “FOR”
each of the nominees unless a contrary vote is specified.
15 


The Company’s directors listed below whose terms are
not expiring this year will continue in office for the remainder of their terms
or earlier in accordance with the Company’s Bylaws. Information regarding the
business experience of the incumbent directors is provided below.
Directors
Whose Terms Expire at the 2006 Annual Meeting:







 


Linda G. Alvarado, 52, President and Chief
  Executive Officer, Alvarado Construction, Inc. In 1976, Ms. Alvarado
  founded Alvarado Construction, Inc. and has overseen the growth of that
  enterprise as a commercial general contracting firm. Ms. Alvarado is on
  the boards of the following public companies in addition to 3M: Lennox
  International Inc., Pitney Bowes, Inc., The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc., and
  QWEST Communications International, Inc.
Director
  since 2000.




 


 


 




 



 


Edward M. Liddy, 59, Chairman, President and
  Chief Executive Officer of The Allstate Corporation, the parent of Allstate
  Insurance Company, a personal lines insurance company, since 1999.
  He served as President and Chief Operating Officer of The Allstate
  Corporation from 1994 to 1998. Before joining Allstate, Mr. Liddy was
  Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Sears, Roebuck and Co.,
  where he held a variety of senior operating and financial positions since
  1988. Mr. Liddy is on the boards of the following public companies in
  addition to 3M and The Allstate Corporation: Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and
  The Kroger Co.
Director
  since 2000.







 


 




 



 


Robert S. Morrison, 62, Retired Vice Chairman of
  PepsiCo, Inc., a processor of packaged foods and beverages. Mr. Morrison
  served as Vice Chairman of PepsiCo, Inc. from 2001 to February 2003. From
  1997 until the 2001 merger with PepsiCo, Mr. Morrison was Chairman,
  President and Chief Executive Officer of The Quaker Oats Company. Mr. Morrison
  is on the boards of the following public companies in addition to 3M: AON
  Corporation, Illinois Tool Works, Inc., and the Tribune Company.
Director
  since 2002.




 


 


 




 



 


Aulana L. Peters, 63, Retired Partner, Gibson,
  Dunn & Crutcher LLP. Mrs. Peters is a retired partner of
  the law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher where she was a partner from 1980
  to 1984 and 1988 to 2000. From 1984 to 1988, she served as a Commissioner of
  the Securities and Exchange Commission. From January 2001 to April 2002, Mrs. Peters
  served as a member of the Public Oversight Board (“POB”) of the American
  Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Mrs. Peters has also served
  as a member of the Steering Committee for Financial Accounting Standards
  Board’s Financial Reporting Project and a member of the POB’s Blue Ribbon
  Panel on Audit Effectiveness. Currently, Mrs. Peters serves on the U.S.
  Comptroller General’s Accountability Advisory Panel and is a member of an
  international public oversight board which will oversee the standard setting
  processes of the International Federation of Accountants in the areas of
  audit performance, quality control, assurance, independence and ethical
  standards for auditors. Mrs. Peters is on the boards of the following
  public companies in addition to 3M: Deere & Company, Merrill Lynch &
  Co., Inc., and Northrop Grumman Corporation.
Director
  since 1990.



 
16 


Directors Whose Terms Expire at the 2007 Annual
Meeting:







 


Edward A. Brennan, 71, Retired Chairman of the
  Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer, Sears, Roebuck and Co., a
  merchandising company. Mr. Brennan retired from Sears in
  1995. Mr. Brennan is on the boards of the following public companies in
  addition to 3M: AMR Corporation, The Allstate Corporation, Exelon
  Corporation, McDonald’s Corporation, and Morgan Stanley.
Director since 1986.




 


 


 




 



 


Michael L. Eskew, 55, Chairman of the Board
  and Chief Executive Officer, United Parcel Service, Inc., since 2002.
  Mr. Eskew was appointed Executive Vice President in 1999 and Vice
  Chairman in 2000 before becoming Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in
  January 2002. Mr. Eskew is on the board of the following public company
  in addition to 3M and United Parcel Service: 
  International Business Machines Corp.
Director since 2003.




 


 


 




 



 


W. James McNerney, Jr., 55, Chairman of the Board
  and Chief Executive Officer since 2001. Before joining 3M in 2001,
  Mr. McNerney was President and Chief Executive Officer, GE Aircraft
  Engines from 1997-2000, and served in numerous executive capacities at
  General Electric Company from 1982 to 1997. Mr. McNerney is on the
  boards of the following public companies in addition to 3M: The Boeing
  Company and the Procter & Gamble Company.
Director since 2001.




 


 


 





 


 


Kevin W. Sharer, 57, Chairman of the Board
  and Chief Executive Officer, Amgen Inc., a biotechnology company, since 2000.
  Mr. Sharer joined Amgen in 1992 as its President and Chief Operating
  Officer and served in that capacity until elected Amgen’s Chairman and Chief
  Executive Officer in 2000. Mr. Sharer is on the boards of the following
  public companies in addition to 3M and Amgen: Northrop Grumman Corporation
  and Unocal Corporation.
Director since 2001.



 
17




PROPOSAL
NO. 2
RATIFICATION OF THE APPOINTMENT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
The Audit Committee has appointed
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm
to audit the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the year ending December 31,
2005. If the stockholders do not ratify the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, the Audit Committee will reconsider the selection.
During 2004, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP served as the
Company’s independent registered public accounting firm and also provided
certain tax and other audit-related services. For a description of those
services and the fees paid, see section entitled “Fees of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm.”
Representatives of PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP are expected to attend the Annual Meeting where they will be available to
respond to questions and, if they desire, to make a statement.
Recommendation of the Board
The Board of Directors recommends a vote “FOR” the
ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company’s
independent registered public accounting firm. Proxies solicited by the Board
of Directors will be voted “FOR” ratification unless a contrary vote is
specified.
PROPOSAL NO. 3
APPROVE THE ADOPTION OF
THE
2005 MANAGEMENT STOCK OWNERSHIP PROGRAM
On February 14, 2005, the
Compensation Committee recommended and the Board of Directors adopted the 2005
Management Stock Ownership Program (the “2005 Program”), subject to stockholder
approval. The 2005 Program is intended to be a successor to the Company’s 2002
Management Stock Ownership Program, which will expire immediately prior to the
2005 Annual Meeting. With minor exceptions, the 2005 Program is similar to
previous management stock plans approved by the Company’s stockholders.
Vote Required
Approval of the adoption of
the 2005 Program requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares of
common stock present or represented by proxy and entitled to vote at the Annual
Meeting.
Summary of the 2005 Program
The following is only a
summary of the 2005 Program and is subject, in all respects, to the full text
of the 2005 Program, a copy of which is attached to this proxy statement as
Appendix F.
1. What
is the Purpose of the 2005 Program?
The purpose of this 2005
Program is to help the Company attract and retain outstanding employees, and to
promote the growth and success of the Company’s business by aligning the
financial interests of these employees with the other stockholders of the
Company. It has been the policy of the Company to encourage employee
participation as stockholders and the Company believes that employee stock
ownership has been an important factor contributing to the Company’s growth and
progress.
18 


2. Who is
Eligible to Participate in the 2005 Program?
Participation in the 2005
Program is limited to employees of the Company and those of its subsidiaries
and affiliates designated by the Board of Directors. Eligibility criteria, the
number of Participants, and the size of all awards to individual employees will
be determined by the Compensation Committee (or by the officers of the Company
to whom it delegates such authority). It is anticipated that approximately
12,000 employees will participate, including all of the Named Executive
Officers referenced in the Summary Compensation Table (with the exception of Dr. Reich,
who has retired). No individual employee may be granted Awards under the 2005
Program with respect to more than 3,000,000 shares of the Company’s common stock.
3. How
Many Shares Are Available for Awards?
The number of shares of the
Company’s common stock that may be issued or delivered as a result of stock
options, restricted stock, restricted stock units or other stock awards granted
during the term of the 2005 Program, or made subject to stock appreciation
rights granted during the term of the 2005 Program, will not exceed 36,750,000.
Any shares issued or delivered as a result of awards granted during the term of
the 2005 Program other than stock options or stock appreciation rights settled
exclusively in common stock will be counted against the 36,750,000 share limit
as 2.45 shares for every one share issued in connection with such award or by
which the award is valued by reference. The necessary shares will be made
available at the discretion of the Board of Directors from authorized but
unissued shares, treasury shares, or shares reacquired by the Company under
corporate repurchase programs.
4. Who Administers the 2005 Program?
The Compensation Committee will administer the 2005
Program. The Committee has full power and authority to select the Participants,
interpret the Program, continue, accelerate, or suspend the exercisability or
vesting of an Award, and adopt such rules and procedures for operating the
Program as it may deem necessary or appropriate. Its power and authority shall
include, but not be limited to, making any amendments to or modifications of
the 2005 Program which may be required or necessary to make such Program comply
with the provisions of any laws or regulations of any country or unit thereof
in which the Company operates.
The Company has retained
E*TRADE Business Solutions Group, Inc. to perform day-to-day
administrative services with respect to the 2005 Program.
5. What
Types of Awards May Be Granted Under the 2005 Program?
(a)            Incentive
Stock Options — Incentive stock options are options to purchase
shares of the Company’s common stock that qualify for favorable income tax
treatment under U.S. income tax laws. Each incentive stock option granted under
the 2005 Program will have a purchase price equal to 100 percent of the fair
market value of a share of common stock on the date the option is granted. Each
incentive stock option granted under the 2005 Program will have a term of 10
years, and will become exercisable at the time or times established by the
Compensation Committee.
(b)           Nonqualified
Stock Options — Nonqualified stock options are options to purchase
shares of the Company’s common stock that do not qualify for favorable tax treatment
under U.S. income tax laws. Each nonqualified stock option granted under the
2005 Program will have a purchase price equal to no less than 100 percent of
the fair market value of a share of common stock on the date the option is
granted. Nonqualified stock options granted under the 2005 Program will become
exercisable and will expire at such time or times as shall be established by
the Compensation Committee. However, no nonqualified stock option will expire
later than 10 years after the grant date (except that the Committee may extend
the exercise period for nonqualified stock options 
19 


granted to Participants in any
country or countries for an additional period of up to one year if and to the
extent necessary to prevent adverse tax consequences to such Participants under
the laws of such country).
(c)            Progressive
Stock Options — Progressive stock options are additional
nonqualified stock options that the Compensation Committee may grant to certain
Participants who exercise other 3M nonqualified stock options granted under the
2002 Management Stock Ownership Program or its predecessors, and who make
payment of all or part of the purchase price and withholding taxes, if any, in
shares of the Company’s common stock. The number of shares subject to each progressive
stock option would be equal to the number of shares of common stock utilized by
the Participant to effect payment of the purchase price and withholding taxes,
if any, for such other nonqualified stock option. Each progressive stock option
granted under the 2005 Program will have a purchase price equal to 100 percent
of the fair market value of a share of common stock on the date of exercise of
the other nonqualified stock option, which will be the grant date of such
progressive stock option. Each progressive stock option granted under the 2005
Program will become exercisable six months after the grant date, and will
expire at the same time the other nonqualified stock option exercised by the
Participant would have expired. Progressive stock options will not be granted
with respect to the exercise of nonqualified stock options granted under the
2005 Program.
(d)           Stock
Appreciation Rights — A stock appreciation right means the right of
a Participant to receive a payment in cash or shares of the Company’s common
stock based on the increase in value of shares of the Company’s common stock
between the date the right is granted and the date it is exercised by the
Participant. A stock appreciation right will be exercisable during the period
determined by the Compensation Committee, but in no event will this period be
longer than 10 years from the date of grant. Each stock appreciation right will
become exercisable at the time or times determined by the Compensation
Committee. A Participant will not be required to make any payment in order to
exercise a stock appreciation right, except for any applicable withholding
taxes.
(e)            Restricted
Stock — Restricted stock is actual shares of the Company’s common
stock granted to a Participant subject to certain conditions established by the
Compensation Committee. Until these conditions are satisfied by the Participant
or waived by the Committee, (1) the Participant may not transfer or
dispose of the restricted stock, (2) the shares are held in custody by the
Company for the Participant’s account, (3) the participant has the rights
and privileges of a stockholder, including the right to vote the shares, and (4) dividends
on the shares may either be paid to the Participant or withheld and credited to
the Participant’s account (with interest), as determined by the Compensation
Committee. One of these conditions will be a requirement that the Participant
remain employed by the Company until the restricted stock becomes vested. If
the Participant’s employment with the Company ends before the restricted stock
has vested (or before any of the other conditions have been satisfied), the
shares are forfeited. Once the conditions have been satisfied or waived and the
restricted stock has vested, the Participant will become entitled to receive
the shares of common stock free from any restrictions on transfer or sale.
(f)                Restricted Stock Units — Restricted stock units are units
granted to a Participant having a value equal to a share of the Company’s
common stock, and subject to certain conditions established by the Compensation
Committee. Unlike restricted stock, no actual shares of the Company’s common
stock are created or set aside for a Participant upon the grant of restricted
stock units and the Participant generally does not have the rights and
privileges of a stockholder. However, dividend equivalents on the restricted
stock units may either be paid to the Participant or withheld and reinvested in
additional restricted stock units, as determined by the Compensation Committee.
One of the conditions applicable to each restricted stock unit will be a
requirement that the Participant remain employed by the Company until the
restricted stock unit becomes 
20 


vested. If the Participant’s
employment with the Company ends before the restricted stock unit has vested
(or before any of the other conditions have been satisfied), the units are
forfeited. Once the conditions have been satisfied or waived and the restricted
stock units have vested, the Participant will be entitled to receive shares of
the Company’s common stock having a value equal to the value of the restricted
stock units and free from any restrictions on their transfer or sale.
(g)           Other Stock Awards — The 2005 Program authorizes the
Compensation Committee to make additional awards of the Company’s common stock
besides those described above, subject to such terms and conditions as it may
determine in its sole discretion.
6. How Do
Participants Make Payment for Awards?
Payment of the purchase price
for shares of the Company’s common stock subject to an option granted under the
2005 Program may be made in the form of cash or shares of the Company’s common
stock. If payment is made in shares of common stock, such shares will be valued
at 100 percent of their fair market value on the day the Participant exercised
his or her option or, as regards a withholding tax, such other date when the
tax withholding obligation becomes due. A Participant making payment in shares
of the Company’s common stock need not actually surrender such shares, but may
instead receive the net number of shares receivable upon the exercise of an
option after paying the purchase price and any applicable withholding taxes by
giving satisfactory evidence of ownership.
7. Are
There Any Restrictions on Transferring Awards?
With a limited exception described below, the 2005
Program prohibits the transfer, assignment or pledge of any award granted under
the Program. However, in the event of the death of a Participant who holds
unexercised options or stock appreciation rights, the 2005 Program permits such
options or rights to be exercised within two years following the date of death
(but not beyond the original expiration date) by the Participant’s estate or by
a person who acquired the right to exercise such options or rights by reason of
the death of the Participant.
The 2005 Program authorizes
the Compensation Committee, in its sole discretion, to permit certain
Participants to transfer ownership of all or any portion of the nonqualified
stock options granted to them under the 2005 Program to their immediate family
members, a trust for the exclusive benefit of such immediate family members, or
a partnership in which immediate family members are the only partners. Individuals
who elect to transfer ownership of such nonqualified stock options may not
receive any consideration for making such transfer, and they remain responsible
for the payment of all withholding taxes due upon exercise of the transferred
options. Following transfer, any such options remain subject to the same terms
and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer.
8. Under
What Circumstances Are Awards Terminated?
(a)            Stock
Options and Stock Appreciation Rights — All stock options and stock
appreciation rights granted under the 2005 Program terminate 90 days after the
termination of a Participant’s employment with the Company for any reason other
than retirement, death, disability or a disqualifying termination. All stock
options and stock appreciation rights granted under the 2005 Program terminate
immediately upon the disqualifying termination of a Participant’s employment
with the Company. If a Participant dies before exercising all of his or her
stock options and stock appreciation rights, the remaining options and rights
may be exercised within the two years following the date of death (but not
beyond the original expiration date) by the Participant’s estate or by a person
who acquired the right to exercise such options and rights by reason of the
death of the Participant.
21 


(b)           Restricted
Stock and Restricted Stock Units — Unless the Compensation Committee
in its discretion waives all conditions for the vesting of a Participant’s
restricted stock or restricted stock units, all shares of restricted stock and
all restricted stock units granted to a Participant under the 2005 Program that
have not already vested shall be forfeited upon the termination of such
Participant’s employment with the Company. However, all conditions for the
vesting of a Participant’s restricted stock or restricted stock units
automatically lapse upon the death of such Participant, and a certificate for
such shares shall be delivered to the Participant’s estate, representative or
beneficiary.
(c)            Exceptions — Notwithstanding the previous rules, if a
Participant’s employment with the Company is terminated before he or she has
fully exercised a stock option or stock appreciation right under circumstances
which the Compensation Committee believes to warrant special consideration, the
Committee may permit such Participant to exercise the option or right
(including any portion thereof not already exercisable at the time of
termination) within two years following his or her termination of employment
(but not beyond the expiration date of such option or right).
9. What
are the Tax Consequences of the Awards?
The following
discussion is intended to provide only a general outline of the federal income
tax consequences of participation in the 2005 Program and the receipt of awards
thereunder by Participants subject to U.S. taxes. It does not address any other
taxes imposed by the United States or any state or political subdivision
thereof, or the tax consequences applicable to Participants who are not subject
to U.S. taxes.
(a)            Incentive
Stock Options — Although the Compensation Committee does not intend
to use such authority at the present time, the 2005 Program does authorize the
granting of incentive stock options (ISO) that meet the requirements of Section 422
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. A Participant who exercises
an ISO does not recognize ordinary income at the time of exercise, and the
Company is not entitled to a tax deduction. Upon the sale of shares obtained by
exercising an ISO after the shares have been held more than one year, the
excess of the sale price over the purchase price is taxed as long-term capital
gain. If the shares are sold within one year of the date of exercise, the
excess of the fair market value of the shares on the date of exercise (or sale
proceeds if less) over the purchase price is taxed as ordinary income, and the
Company gets a tax deduction for this amount. The remaining gain, if any, is
taxed as short-term capital gain. Unless the shares obtained by exercising an
ISO are sold within the same calendar year as they are purchased, the exercise
of such option will increase the participant’s income for purposes of the
alternative minimum tax. The amount of income will equal the amount by which
the fair market value of the shares purchased as of the date of exercise
exceeds the purchase price paid for such shares. If a Participant is required
to pay alternative minimum tax as a result of exercising an ISO, the amount
paid can be carried over and credited against the Participant’s regular income
tax liability in subsequent years.
(b)           Nonqualified
Stock Options — A Participant who exercises a nonqualified stock
option recognizes taxable ordinary income in the year the option is exercised
in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the shares
purchased on the exercise date over the purchase price. The Company is entitled
to a tax deduction in an amount equal to the ordinary income recognized by the
participant. The excess of the proceeds from any subsequent sale of the shares
purchased over the fair market value on the date of exercise is taxed as
long-term capital gain if the shares are held more than one year and as
short-term capital gain if held one year or less.
(c)            Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units — A Participant
normally will not recognize taxable income and the Company will not be entitled
to a deduction upon the grant of shares of restricted stock or restricted stock
units. When the shares or units vest, the Participant will recognize 
22 


taxable ordinary income
in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares at that time less the
amount, if any, paid for the shares, and the Company will be entitled at that
time to a deduction in the same amount. However, a Participant may elect to
recognize taxable ordinary income in the year the shares of restricted stock or
restricted stock units are granted in an amount equal to the excess of their
fair market value at the grant date, determined without regard to the
restrictions, over the amount, if any, paid for the shares. In that event, the
Company will be entitled to a deduction in such year in the same amount, and
any gain or loss realized by the Participant upon the subsequent disposition of
the shares will be taxed as short- or long-term capital gain but will not
result in any further deduction for the Company.
10. What
Happens if There is a Change in Control?
(a)            The 2005 Program
provides for the acceleration of vesting and other rights in and to awards
under the 2005 Program in the event of a “change in control.” The 2005 Program
defines a “change in control” to have occurred in either of the following
events:
i.                   when any
individual or entity shall have accumulated or own beneficially 20 percent or
more of the combined voting power of the Company’s then outstanding securities
in any capacity other than as a trustee or fiduciary of an employee benefit
plan of the Company, unless a majority of the Continuing Directors (as defined
in Article Thirteenth of the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation)
determine in their sole discretion that a change in control has not occurred;
or
ii.                when the
Continuing Directors shall fail to constitute a majority of the Company’s Board
of Directors.
(b)           In the case of stock
options and stock appreciation rights, a change in control shall result in the
options and rights becoming immediately exercisable in full and remaining so
for at least a minimum period of six months following the change in control,
but in no event beyond the original expiration dates.
(c)            In the case of
restricted stock, restricted stock units or other awards, a change in control
shall result in the immediate vesting of all shares of restricted stock and all
restricted stock units and any conditions originally established by the
Compensation Committee with respect to other awards lapsing and becoming void,
and stock certificates for the number of shares represented by such awards
under the 2005 Program shall be immediately deliverable to the Participants.
11. How
Long Will the 2005 Program Remain in Effect, and May it be Changed?
The 2005 Program will become effective
on the date it is approved by the requisite vote of stockholders and expires on
the third anniversary of the effective date (unless it is terminated before
then). The Board of Directors may at any time terminate or amend the 2005
Program, except that no amendment may be made without the prior approval of 3M
stockholders that would either (1) authorize the issuance or delivery of
(or the granting of stock appreciation rights with respect to) more than
36,750,000 shares of the Company’s common stock, or (2) permit the
granting of awards with purchase prices lower than those described in Q&A 5
above. No amendment or termination of the 2005 Program will adversely affect
awards previously granted.
Equity
Compensation Plan Information
The following table shows the
number of options or other awards currently outstanding, as well as the number
of shares remaining available for grant under the 2002 Management Stock
Ownership
23 


Program, the 1997 General Employees Stock Purchase
Plan (GESPP), and the 1992 Directors Stock Ownership Program as of December 31,
2004. 



 


 


A


 


B


 


C


 




Plan Category


 


Number of securities to be issued upon
  exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights


 


Weighted-average exercise price of
  outstanding options, warrants and rights


 


Number of securities remaining available for
  future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities
  reflected in column (A)


 




Equity compensation plans approved by security
  holders


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




MSOP


 


78,293,754


*


$58.70


*


7,869,168


*




GESPP


 


—


 


—


 


13,751,060


 




Non-employee directors


 


—


 


—


 


560,733


*




Subtotal


 


78,293,754


 


$58.70


 


22,180,961


 




Equity compensation plans not approved by security
  holders


 


—


 


—


 


—


 




Total


 


78,293,754


 


$58.70


 


22,180,961


 



 
*     As of February 28,
2005, there were 76,234,375 options outstanding under the MSOP, with a weighted-average
exercise price of $59.19 and a weighted-average term to expiration of 6.03 years.
As of February 28, 2005, the number of securities available for issuance
under the MSOP and Directors Stock Ownership Program were 7,866,992 and 559,412,
respectively.
Recommendation of the Board
The Board of Directors
recommends a vote “FOR” the proposal to approve the adoption of the 2005
Management Stock Ownership Program. Proxies solicited by the Board of Directors
will be voted “FOR” this proposal unless a contrary vote is specified.
PROPOSAL NO. 4
STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL
3M has received a stockholder proposal from Patience
Pierce, Dorothy Goldberg, David Goldberg, Patricia Berman, and Marlis Shaffer
(the “Proponents”). The Proponents have requested the Company to include the
following proposal and supporting statement in its proxy statement for the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders. The proposal may be voted on at the Annual Meeting
only if properly presented by the Proponent or the Proponent’s qualified
representative.
Proponent’s Proposal:
This Proposal is submitted by a collective of
concerned shareholders.1
WHEREAS, statistics
published by research oversight bodies in North America and Europe document
that the vast majority of painful and distressing animal experiments are
conducted to satisfy outdated, government-mandated testing requirements2  and that such
testing is on the rise;3  and



1                      The
proponents of this Resolution are Patience Pierce, Dorothy Goldberg, David
Goldberg, Patricia Berman, and Marlis Shaffer.
2                      CCAC
Animal Use Survey - 2001: http://www.ccac.ca/english/FACTS/Facframeaus2001.htm
3                      Statistics
of Scientific Procedures on Living Animals - Great Britain - 2002. http://www.official-documents.co.uk/document/cm58/5886/5886.htm
24




WHEREAS, nearly 60% of animals used in regulatory
testing suffer pain ranging from moderate to severe, all the way to pain near,
at, or above the pain tolerance threshold,4 generally without any pain relief; and
WHEREAS, non-animal test methods are generally less
expensive,5 more rapid, and always more humane, than
animal-based tests; and
WHEREAS, unlike animal tests, non-animal methods have
been scientifically validated and/or accepted as total replacements for the
following five toxicity endpoints: skin corrosion (irreversible tissue damage),
skin irritation (milder and reversible damage), skin absorption (the rate of
chemical penetration), phototoxicity (an inflammatory reaction caused by the
interaction of a chemical with sunlight), and pyrogencity (a fever-like
reaction that can occur when certain intravenous drugs interact with the immune
system);
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the shareholders
request that the Board:
1.               Commit specifically
to using only non-animal methods for assessing skin corrosion, irritation,
absorption, phototoxicity and pyrogenicity.
2.               Confirm that it is
in the Company’s best interest to commit to replacing animal-based tests with
non-animal methods.
3.               Petition the
relevant regulatory agencies requiring safety testing for the Company’s
products to accept as total replacements for animal-based methods, those
approved non-animal methods described above, along with any others currently
used and accepted by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
(OECD) and other developed countries.
Supporting Statement:
This Resolution is designed to harmonize the interests of sound science with
the elimination of animal-based test methods where non-animal methodologies
exist. It seeks to encourage the relevant regulatory agencies to join their
peers in accepting validated in vitro and
other non-animal test methods. It will not compromise consumer safety or
violate applicable statutes and regulations.
Further, this Resolution commits the Company to end
animal testing for five specific endpoints in favor of valid non-animal
methods. These include the 3T3 Neutral Red Uptake Phototoxicity Test, human
skin equivalent tests for corrosivity, and a human blood-based test for
pyrogenicity, all of which have been successfully validated through the
European Centre for the Validation of Alternative Methods.6  Several
non-animal methods have also been adopted as Test Guidelines by the OECD7 (an alliance of 30
member countries including the US, EU, Japan, Canada and Australia). Regulatory
agencies in OECD member countries are not at liberty to reject data from
non-animal tests for skin corrosion, skin absorption and phototoxicity where
such data have been generated in accordance with an OECD Test Guideline.
We urge shareholders to support this Resolution.




4                      CCAC
Animal Use Survey - 2001
5                      Derelanko
MJ and Hollinger MA (Eds.). (2002). Handbook of Toxicology,
Second Ed, 1414 pp. Washington, DC: CRC Press.
6                      ECVAM
website: http://ecvam,jrc.it
7                      OECD
test guidelines:
http://www.oecd.org/document/22/0,2340,en_2649_34377_1916054_1_1_1_1,00.html
25 


Board’s
Statement Opposing the Proposal
3M is supportive of the principle of protecting the
comfort and welfare of animals that underlies the proposal, but must oppose the
proposal for two reasons. First, 3M is already doing what it can to minimize
the use of animal testing, and second, existing technology and regulatory
requirements do not permit 3M to use the proposed non-animal alternatives for
all of its products.
3M is obligated to ensure that its products are
effective and safe. At present, this requires the judicious use of laboratory
animals in research and development of some products. 3M looks forward to the
day when science has developed to the point where the use of animals no longer
is required to establish the efficacy and safety of its products. Until then,
3M is committed to the use of alternatives to animals when feasible and
subscribes to the recognized principles of replacement, reduction and
refinement.*  When animal studies are
deemed necessary, animals are treated humanely, ethically, and in accord with
accepted veterinary practices to promote their comfort and well-being; their
use is scientifically justified; and their care and treatment are carefully
scrutinized by an effective institutional animal care and use review process.
Facilities in which animals are used must meet or exceed all applicable
standards and regulations governing animal care and use.
3M uses state-of-the-art technologies to minimize its
reliance on animal testing and to reduce the number of animals used in
individual projects. Over the past five years, 3M has significantly reduced its
use of regulated laboratory animals through rigorous reviews of scientific
literature and other available data. Efforts are made to make sure that
research proposals do not duplicate earlier work and to discover if relevant
data have already been published.
3M also has demonstrated its commitment to replacing
animal-based tests with non-animal methods through its funding of research of
alternatives to animal testing. 3M has contributed for more than 10 years to
the Johns Hopkins Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing and 3M’s management
actively participates in the Center’s activities through board representation.
The proposal disregards the breadth of 3M’s products
and operations. 3M is a diversified technology company with subsidiaries in
more than 60 countries that manufactures and sells more than 50,000 products in
nearly 200 countries. For some of 3M’s products, government agencies, such as
the Food and Drug Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency
expressly require that laboratory animal tests be conducted. Selected
non-animal tests that may be acceptable in one country or by one regulatory
agency for one type of product or use of that product are often not acceptable
in another country or by another regulatory agency for that same product or
use.
A requirement to petition applicable regulatory agencies
that require safety testing to accept non-animal alternatives as total
replacements for animal-based methods misses the point where alternatives are
not effective for all of our products.
Because the Company already
limits animal testing to the greatest extent feasible, and because some animal
testing is needed at this time to comply with regulatory and health
requirements, the Company believes this proposal is not feasible and if
adopted, would compromise the Company’s ability to develop and market useful
products that meet necessary human safety and efficacy standards.
Recommendation of the Board
The Board of Directors recommends a vote “AGAINST”
this proposal for the reasons discussed above. Proxies solicited by the Board
of Directors will be voted “AGAINST” this proposal unless a stockholder
indicates otherwise in voting the proxy.




*       “The
Principles of Humane Experimental Techniques”, W.M.S. Russell & R.L. Burch,
1959.
26 


PROPOSAL
NO. 5
STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL
3M has received a stockholder
proposal from Jane Segal of Harrington Investments, Inc., 1001 2nd Street,
Suite 325, Napa, CA 94559 (the “Proponent”). The Proponent has requested the
Company to include the following proposal and supporting statement in its proxy
statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The proposal may be voted on
at the Annual Meeting only if properly presented by the Proponent or the
Proponent’s qualified representative.
Proponent’s Proposal:
WHEREAS: our company’s business practices in China
respect human and labor rights of workers. The first nine principles below were
designed to commit a company to a widely accepted and thorough set of human and
labor rights standards for China. They were defined by the International Labor
Organization and the United Nations Covenants on Economic, Social &
Cultural Rights, and Civil & Political Rights.
(1)           No goods or products
produced within our company’s facilities or those of suppliers shall be
manufactured by bonded labor, forced labor, within prison camps or as part of
reform-through-labor or reeducation-through-labor programs.
(2)           Our facilities and
suppliers shall adhere to wages that meet workers’ basic needs, fair and decent
working hours, and at a minimum, to the wage and hour guidelines provided by
China’s national labor laws.
(3)           Our facilities and
suppliers shall prohibit the use of corporal punishment, any physical, sexual
or verbal abuse or harassment of workers.
(4)           Our facilities and
suppliers shall use production methods that do not negatively affect the
worker’s occupational safety and health.
(5)           Our facilities and
suppliers shall not call on police or military to enter their premises to
prevent workers from exercising their rights.
(6)           We shall undertake to
promote the following freedoms among our employees and the employees of our
suppliers: freedom of association and assembly, including the rights to form
unions and bargain collectively; freedom of expression, and freedom from
arbitrary arrest or detention.
(7)           Company employees and
those of our suppliers shall not face discrimination in hiring, remuneration or
promotion based on age, gender, marital status, pregnancy, ethnicity, region of
origin, labor, political or religious activity, or on involvement in
demonstrations, past records of arrests or internal exile for peaceful protest,
or membership in organizations committed to non-violent social or political
change.
(8)           Our facilities and
suppliers shall use environmentally responsible methods of production that have
minimum adverse impact on land, air and water quality.
(9)           Our facilities and
suppliers shall prohibit child labor, at a minimum comply with guidelines on
minimum age for employment within China’s national labor laws.
(10)    We will not sell or provide
products or technology in China that can be used to commit human rights
violations or labor rights abuse.
(11)    We will issue annual
statements to the China Working Group detailing our efforts to uphold these
principles and to promote these basic freedoms.
27 


RESOLVED: Stockholders request the Board of Directors
to make all possible lawful efforts to implement and/or increase activity on
each of the principles named above in the People’s Republic of China.
SUPPORTING STATEMENT: As U.S.
companies import more goods, consumer and shareholder concern is growing about
working conditions in China that fall below basic standards of fair and humane
treatment. We hope that our company can prove to be a leader in its industry
and embrace these principles.
Board’s
Statement Opposing the Proposal
3M has long been recognized worldwide as an ethical
and law-abiding company. Although the Company has business operations in more
than 60 countries, 3M has only one set of business conduct policies and human
resource principles that apply globally. These universal standards provide a
framework for conducting business the right way — legally and ethically —
everywhere 3M does business, including the People’s Republic of China. 3M
opposes the proposal because adopting duplicative principles for one country is
unnecessary and contrary to the benefits derived from one set of standards
applicable to every country where we do business. 3M’s universal standards
relate to and substantially implement each of the principles described in the
proposal and include:
·       Fair Employment and Labor Practices: Our compensation for
our workforce in China significantly exceeds minimum wage requirements. 3M
values a diverse workforce and has extensive programs to identify, hire,
educate and promote employees with a wide range of skills and attributes. 3M
prohibits workplace harassment and respects workers’ freedom to associate with
each other and organize. 3M has adopted strong worker protection principles
that apply worldwide that prohibit the use of forced or bonded labor, or the employment
of children under the minimum age established by local law.
·       Harassment-free Workplace: It is 3M policy that employees
and others acting on 3M’s behalf are entitled to a working environment that is
free of inappropriate behavior of all kinds and harassment because of age,
disability, marital status, race or color, national origin, religion, sex or
sexual orientation.
·       Environmental, Health and Safety: It is 3M policy to provide
a safe and healthful workplace for its employees, and to minimize the impact of
our production processes and products on the environment.
·       Supplier Expectations: 
We also set specific expectations for our suppliers. These expectations
state that a 3M supplier must, among others: (i) ensure that goods produced for
3M have been manufactured and sold in compliance with all applicable laws,
rules and regulations; (ii) comply with all local country labor laws, including
those related to wages, hours worked, working conditions and child labor; (iii)
not use labor which is a result of mental or physical coercion, physical
punishment, slavery or other oppressive labor conditions; (iv) comply with
applicable country employment discrimination laws; (v) hire and employ workers
in compliance with applicable laws; wages, benefits, and working hours are
expected to be fair and reasonable in the local labor market; and (vi) provide
workers with a safe and healthy work environment that is in compliance with
applicable laws.
Each year, 3M publishes on its Web site a
sustainability report that looks beyond financial reporting and marketplace
performance to present a broader perspective of our Company and our values.
This report provides our employees and a broad external audience with an
overview of the management systems we apply to the economic, social, workforce
and environmental aspects of our business. This report is available not only to
the China Working Group referred to in the stockholder proposal, but to everyone. A copy of the report is available at: http://solutions.3m.com/wps/portal/_l/en_US/_s.155/115150/_s.155/113842.
28 


In recognition of our commitment to sustainability, 3M
has been selected for inclusion in the 2005 Dow Jones Sustainability Index that
tracks the performance of sustainability-driven companies worldwide. This marks
the fifth year that we have been included in the index and the fourth year that
we have been named the leader in our category of diversified companies.
Our business touches a broad
and diverse group of individuals and organizations — our employees, stockholders,
customers, suppliers, and communities in which we operate. The Company’s
universal standards effectively support its responsibilities to each of its
stakeholders. We believe the Company’s global business conduct policies, human
resource principles and management systems already address the objectives
sought by the Proponent.
Recommendation of the Board
The Board of Directors recommends a vote “AGAINST”
this proposal for the reasons discussed above. Proxies solicited by the Board
of Directors will be voted “AGAINST” this proposal unless a stockholder
indicates otherwise in voting the proxy.
COMMON STOCK OWNERSHIP OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS
The following table sets forth information concerning
beneficial ownership of the Company’s common stock as of February 28, 2005,
for: (a) each director and the nominees for director; (b) Named Executive
Officers set forth in the Summary Compensation Table; and (c) the directors and
executive officers as a group. Unless otherwise indicated, each person has sole
investment and voting power (or shares such powers with his or her spouse) with
respect to the shares set forth in the following table.
The number of shares beneficially owned by each
director or executive officer is determined under the rules of the Securities
and Exchange Commission, and the information is not necessarily indicative of
beneficial ownership for any other purpose. Under such rules, beneficial
ownership includes any shares as to which the individual has the sole or shared
voting power or investment power and also any shares that the individual has
the right to acquire as of April 28, 2005 (60 days after February 28, 2005),
through the exercise of any stock option or other right. Options exercisable
within 60 days after February 28, 2005, are shown separately.
29 


Beneficial Ownership Table



Name and Principal Position


 


 


 


Common Stock
  Beneficially
  Owned (1)


 


Options
  Exercisable (2)


 


Shares Held as
  Deferred Stock (3)


 


Total


 




Linda G. Alvarado,
  Director


 


 


4,899


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


3,986


 


 


8,885


 




Edward A. Brennan, Director


 


 


252


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


35,671


 


 


35,923


 




Vance D. Coffman, Director


 


 


0


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


6,336


 


 


6,336


 




Michael L. Eskew, Director


 


 


0


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


4,235


 


 


4,235


 




Edward M. Liddy, Director


 


 


0


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


10,610


 


 


10,610


 




Robert S. Morrison, Director


 


 


3,934


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


3,328


 


 


7,262


 




Aulana L. Peters, Director


 


 


2,443


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


30,456


 


 


32,899


 




Rozanne L. Ridgway, Director


 


 


2,576


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


39,889


 


 


42,465


 




Kevin W. Sharer, Director


 


 


878


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


5,938


 


 


6,816


 




Louis W. Sullivan, Director


 


 


1,689


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


17,431


 


 


19,120


 




W. James McNerney, Jr.,
  Director, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer


 


 


230,279 


(4)


 


 


2,232,352


 


 


 


0


 


 


2,462,631


 




Harold J. Wiens,
  Executive Vice President


 


 


57,361


 


 


 


318,095


 


 


 


0


 


 


375,456


 




Richard F. Ziegler
  Senior Vice President


 


 


16,616


(5)


 


 


45,444


 


 


 


0


 


 


62,060


 




Patrick D. Campbell
  Chief Financial Officer


 


 


18,085


(6)


 


 


125,367


 


 


 


0


 


 


143,452


 




Charles Reich,
  Executive Vice President (7)


 


 


64,281


 


 


 


302,040


 


 


 


0


 


 


366,321


 




All Directors and
  Executive Officers as a Group (29 persons) (8)


 


 


802,604


 


 


 


4,467,384


 


 


 


157,880


 


 


5,427,868


 



 

 

FOOTNOTES TO BENEFICIAL
OWNERSHIP TABLE
(1)   “Common Stock Beneficially Owned” includes
(a) stock held in joint tenancy, (b) stock owned as tenants in common, (c)
stock owned or held by spouse or other members of the nominee’s household, (d)
stock in which the nominee either has or shares voting and/or investment power,
even though the nominee disclaims any beneficial interest in such stock, and
(e) shares of profit sharing stock held by the Company and subject to
forfeiture, as more fully described in footnotes 1 and 3 to the Summary
Compensation Table. Options exercisable within 60 days after February 28, 2005,
are shown separately.
(2)   Option prices for these shares range from
$28.6348 to $86.6508 per share.
(3)   “Shares Held as Deferred Stock” by
nonemployee directors represent the number of shares of the Company’s common
stock, as of February 28, 2005, which the directors will receive upon
termination of membership on the Board of Directors for any reason. These
shares result from the voluntary election by the nonemployee directors to defer
the payment of directors’ fees. No shares of common stock have as yet been
issued, and the directors have neither voting nor investment powers in these
shares of deferred stock.
30 


(4)   Includes restricted shares that generally
vest in increments of 10 percent over a ten-year period if the executive
remains continuously employed by the Company and are subject to forfeiture
under certain circumstances.
(5)   Includes restricted shares that generally
vest in increments of one-third over a seven-year period if the executive
remains continuously employed by the Company and are subject to forfeiture
under certain circumstances.
(6)   Includes restricted shares that generally
vest in increments of one-third over a three-year period if the executive
remains continuously employed by the Company and are subject to forfeiture
under certain circumstances.
(7)   Holdings reported through September 30,
2004, date insider status ended.
(8)   All
directors and executive officers as a group owned beneficially less than one
percent of the outstanding common stock of the Company.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF MORE THAN 5 PERCENT STOCKHOLDERS
The
following table sets forth information regarding beneficial ownership of more than
5 percent of the outstanding 3M stock as of December 31, 2004.



Name/Address


 


 


 


Shares
  Beneficially Owned


 


Percent of
  Stock
Outstanding


 




State Street Bank and
  Trust
  Company (“State Street”) (1)
  225 Franklin Street
  Boston, MA 02110


 


 


62,033,807


 


 


 


7.97


 


 




Barclays Global
  Investors, NA (2)
  45 Fremont Street
  San Francisco, CA 94105


 


 


46,705,056


 


 


 


6.01


 


 



 
(1)   State Street holds 7.97 percent of our
outstanding common stock as trustee for certain 3M savings plans, including the
Company’s Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan, a 401(k)
retirement savings plan. Under the terms of the plans, State Street is required
to vote shares allocated to the accounts of the participants in accordance with
instructions received from such participants. Information is based on a
Schedule 13G/A filed with the SEC on February 22, 2005. State Street disclaims
beneficial ownership of all of the shares listed above.
(2)   The
address and number of shares of 3M common stock beneficially owned by Barclays
Global Investors, NA is based on the Schedule 13G filed by Barclays Global
Investors, NA with the SEC on February 14, 2005.
SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE
Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
requires our directors and executive officers to file with the Securities
Exchange Commission reports regarding their ownership and changes in ownership
of our stock. 3M believes that during 2004, its directors and executive
officers complied with all Section 16(a) filing requirements. In making this
statement, 3M has relied upon examination of the copies of Forms 3, 4, and 5
and the written representations of its directors and executive officers.
31




EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
Summary Compensation Table
The
following table sets forth certain compensation information for the chief
executive officer and the four other executive officers of 3M who, based on
their salary and bonus compensation, were the most highly compensated for 2004
(the “Named Executive Officers”). All information set forth in this table
reflects compensation earned by these individuals for services in 2004, as well
as their compensation in 2003 and 2002.






 


 


 


Annual Compensation


 


Long-Term Compensation


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


Awards


 


Payouts


 


 


 




Name and Principal Position


 


 


 


Year


 


Salary ($)


 


Profit Sharing
  (Bonus)
  ($)(1)


 


Other Annual
  Compensation
  ($)(2)


 


Restricted
  Stock
  Awards ($)(3)


 


Options Granted
  #-Number
  of Shares (4)


 


Performance
  Unit Plan
  (LTIP)
  Payouts ($)


 


All Other
  Compensation
  ($)(5)


 




W. James McNerney, Jr. 


 


2004


 


1,624,333


 


3,522,149


 


 


467,233


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


436,247


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


318,418


 


 




Chairman of the Board 


 


2003


 


1,540,000


 


3,222,459


 


 


163,157


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


462,432


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


51,745


 


 




and Chief Executive 


 


2002


 


1,400,000


 


3,310,830


 


 


167,721


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


430,000


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


142,762


 


 




Officer


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Harold J. Wiens  


 


2004


 


641,191


 


828,512


 


 


83,832


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


109,581


 


 


 


434,906


 


 


 


94,404


 


 




Executive
  Vice


 


2003


 


618,512


 


406,147


 


 


61,190


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


92,636


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


8,807


 


 




President


 


2002


 


566,419


 


472,791


 


 


21,394


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


94,952


 


 


 


505,575


 


 


 


4,778


 


 




Richard F. Ziegler 


 


2004


 


636,000


 


823,473


 


 


4,927


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


50,201


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


87,010


 


 




Senior Vice President, 


 


2003


 


600,000


 


775,311


 


 


29,705


 


 


 


760,500


 


 


 


46,000


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


19,054


 


 




Legal Affairs and 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




General Counsel


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Patrick D. Campbell 


 


2004


 


590,850


 


501,092


 


 


0


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


72,162


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


68,941


 


 




Senior
  Vice President 


 


2003


 


540,111


 


442,392


 


 


6,677


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


44,000


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


26,517


 


 




and Chief
  Financial 


 


2002


 


412,500


 


392,579


 


 


115,403


 


 


 


339,810


 


 


 


88,000


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


7,110


 


 




Officer


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Charles Reich 


 


2004


 


608,269


 


483,283


 


 


255


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


137,216


 


 


 


437,520


 


 


 


59,821


 


 




Executive Vice


 


2003


 


579,304


 


458,419


 


 


2,339


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


105,782


 


 


 


543,366


 


 


 


8,807


 


 




President (Retired 


 


2002


 


495,430


 


468,284


 


 


9,704


 


 


 


0


 


 


 


97,098


 


 


 


432,895


 


 


 


4,778


 


 




effective January 1, 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




2005)


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 



































 
Footnotes
to Summary Compensation Table
(1)   Generally, profit
sharing is paid in cash; however, the Named Executive Officers have in the
past, and may in the future, receive a portion of their profit sharing in
restricted shares of the Company’s common stock as determined by the
Compensation Committee. The restricted shares vest at the end of three years or
at age 65, whichever occurs first, or upon death or permanent disability. For Mr. Ziegler,
in 2004 Bonus includes $283,333 of a signing bonus payable to him in accordance
with his employment agreement with the Company.
(2)   “Other Annual
Compensation” includes perquisites or other personal benefits received by the
named individuals to the extent that the aggregate amount thereof exceeds
$50,000, amounts reimbursed to individuals during the year for payment of taxes
and that portion of interest above market rates (as determined by the SEC) paid
on that compensation voluntarily deferred by the individuals. For 2004, Mr. McNerney’s
Other Annual Compensation includes $124,659 for the incremental cost of
Company-required personal use of corporate aircraft and $126,627 for
improvements to the security system at Mr. McNerney’s personal residence. For
2003 and 2002, Mr. McNerney’s Other Annual Compensation included $107,833
and $114,300, respectively, for the incremental cost of Company-required
personal use of corporate aircraft.
32 


(3)   Value as
of the date of grant. As of December 31, 2004, Mr. McNerney held
154,000 shares of restricted stock that had a value of $12,638,780. These
shares resulted from a grant of 220,000 shares of restricted stock made to Mr. McNerney
in accordance with his employment agreement with the Company. These shares vest
in increments of 10 percent on the 1st of January in the years
2002 through 2011 if he remains continuously employed by the Company. As of December 31,
2004, Mr. Ziegler held 12,000 shares of restricted stock that had a value
of $984,840. These shares resulted from a grant of 12,000 shares of restricted
stock made to Mr. Ziegler in accordance with his employment agreement with
the Company. These shares vest in increments of 33-1/3 percent on the 1st
of January in the years 2006, 2008, and 2010 if he remains continuously
employed by the Company. As of December 31, 2004, Mr. Campbell held
2,000 shares of restricted stock that had a value of $164,140. These shares
resulted from a grant of 6,000 shares of restricted stock made to Mr. Campbell
in accordance with his employment agreement with the Company. These shares vest
in increments of 33-1/3 percent on the 1st of February in the
years 2003 through 2005 if he remains continuously employed by the Company. Dividends
are paid on this restricted stock to the same extent and at the same time the
Company pays dividends on its common stock. (For more information about this
restricted stock, see the section entitled “Employment Contracts, Termination
of Employment, and Change-in-Control Arrangements”). In addition, as of December 31,
2004, each of the Named Executive Officers held the following shares of
restricted stock having the following values as a result of profit sharing
compensation earned in years prior to 2002: Mr. McNerney, 6,832 shares
having a value of $560,702; Mr. Wiens, 124 shares having a value of
$10,177; and Dr. Reich, 110 shares having a value of $9,028.
(4)   The number of stock
options shown in this column includes both annual grants of incentive and
nonqualified stock options and Progressive Stock Options, which are described
more fully in footnote 1 to the Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year Table.
(5)   “All
Other Compensation” includes: (a) for years prior to 2003, the dollar
value of premiums paid on behalf of the individual for the term portion of life
insurance under the Company’s Senior Executive Split Dollar Plan, and that
amount deemed to be compensation to the individuals under the Company’s Senior
Executive Split Dollar Plan in accordance with rules developed by the SEC;
(b) for 2003, the dollar value of premiums paid on behalf of the
individual for term life insurance coverage provided in lieu of coverage under
the Company’s Senior Executive Split Dollar Plan, or to reimburse the
individual for premiums paid for life insurance under the Executive Life
Insurance Plan; (c) for 2004, the dollar value of premiums paid on behalf
of the individual under the whole life or universal life insurance policies
issued to them under the Executive Life Insurance Plan; and (d) all
amounts contributed by the Company to the account of each named executive under
the Company’s 401(k) plans. For 2004, the dollar value of the premiums
paid on behalf of the Named Executive Officers under the whole life or
universal life insurance policies issued to them under the Executive Life
Insurance Plan were $262,937 for Mr. McNerney, $85,492 for Mr. Wiens,
$67,474 for Mr. Ziegler, $50,179 for Mr. Campbell, and $50,909 for Dr. Reich.
During 2004 the amounts contributed by the Company to the accounts of the Named
Executive Officers under the Company’s 401(k) plans were $55,480 for Mr. McNerney,
$8,912 for Mr. Wiens, $19,536 for Mr. Ziegler, $18,762 for Mr. Campbell,
and $8,912 for Dr. Reich.
33 


Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year
The
following table shows all grants of options to acquire shares of 3M common
stock granted in 2004 to the Named Executive Officers.



 


 


Individual Grants


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


Name


 


 


Options/
  SARs
  Granted (#)(1)


 


% of Total
  Options/SARs
  Granted
  to Employees in
  Fiscal Year


 


Exercise or
  Base Price
  ($/Sh)(2)


 


Expiration
  Date(3)


 


Grant Date
  Present Value ($)(4)


 




W. J. McNerney, Jr.


 


 


375,000


 


 


 


2.800


%


 


 


$


84.400


 


 


5/11/2014


 


 


$


7,612,500


 


 




 


 


 


61,247


 


 


 


0.457


%


 


 


$


82.600


 


 


12/4/2010


 


 


$


738,639


 


 




H. J. Wiens


 


 


67,426


 


 


 


0.503


%


 


 


$


84.400


 


 


5/11/2014


 


 


$


1,368,748


 


 




 


 


 


3,421


 


 


 


0.026


%


 


 


$


84.800


 


 


5/9/2005


 


 


$


44,165


 


 




 


 


 


519


 


 


 


0.004


%


 


 


$


84.800


 


 


5/14/2006


 


 


$


6,700


 


 




 


 


 


3,797


 


 


 


0.028


%


 


 


$


84.800


 


 


5/14/2006


 


 


$


49,019


 


 




 


 


 


369


 


 


 


0.003


%


 


 


$


84.800


 


 


5/13/2007


 


 


$


4,764


 


 




 


 


 


370


 


 


 


0.003


%


 


 


$


84.800


 


 


5/13/2007


 


 


$


4,777


 


 




 


 


 


3,340


 


 


 


0.025


%


 


 


$


84.800


 


 


5/12/2008


 


 


$


43,119


 


 




 


 


 


30,339


 


 


 


0.227


%


 


 


$


84.800


 


 


5/11/2009


 


 


$


391,676


 


 




R. F. Ziegler


 


 


46,932


 


 


 


0.350


%


 


 


$


84.400


 


 


5/11/2014


 


 


$


952,720


 


 




 


 


 


3,269


 


 


 


0.024


%


 


 


$


78.850


 


 


5/13/2013


 


 


$


39,424


 


 




P. D. Campbell


 


 


64,873


 


 


 


0.484


%


 


 


$


84.400


 


 


5/11/2014


 


 


$


1,319,517


 


 




 


 


 


7,289


 


 


 


0.054


%


 


 


$


80.950


 


 


5/8/2011


 


 


$


84,042


 


 




C. Reich


 


 


81,621


 


 


 


0.609


%


 


 


$


84.400


 


 


5/11/2014


 


 


$


1,656,906


 


 




 


 


 


18,949


 


 


 


0.141


%


 


 


$


82.250


 


 


5/9/2010


 


 


$


254,675


 


 




 


 


 


36,646


 


 


 


0.274


%


 


 


$


82.250


 


 


5/8/2011


 


 


$


492,522


 


 




All
  Optionees


 


 


13,391,850


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


$


84.310


 


 


 


 


 


$


264,765,122


 


 





























 
Footnotes to Option Grants in
Last Fiscal Year Table
(1)   The Company did not
grant any stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) during 2004. The options shown for
each individual include both annual grants of nonqualified stock options and
grants of Progressive Stock Options (“PSOs”). Nonqualified options granted to
certain participants are subject to a reload feature when exercised with the
payment of the option price in the form of previously owned shares of the
Company’s common stock. Such an exercise results in further grants of PSOs. The
first grant shown for each individual is the annual grant. The remaining lines
are PSOs. The PSO grants for each individual were made on a single date, but
are, pursuant to SEC rules, shown in multiple lines because of different
expiration dates.
PSO grants were made to participants who exercised
nonqualified stock options and who paid the purchase price using shares of
previously owned Company common stock. The PSO grant is for the number of
shares equal to the shares utilized in payment of the purchase price and tax
withholding, if any. The option price for the PSO is equal to 100 percent of
the market value of the Company’s common stock on the date of the exercise of
the primary option. The option period is equal to the remaining period of the
options exercised.
The participant must have owned Company common stock
used for payment for at least six months, and only one exercise of nonqualified
options per participant per calendar year will be eligible for PSO grants by
the Compensation Committee.
34 


The presence of PSOs encourages early exercise of
nonqualified stock options, without foregoing the opportunity for further
appreciation, and promotes retention of the Company stock acquired.
In any event, a
participant receiving an annual grant of nonqualified stock options can never
acquire more shares of Company common stock through successive exercises of the
primary option and subsequent PSO grants than the number of shares covered by
the primary annual option grant from the Committee.
(2)   All options granted
during the period were granted at the market value on the date of grant, as
calculated from the average of the high and low prices reported on the New York
Stock Exchange Composite Index. The option price shown for the “All Optionees”
line is $84.310 and represents the weighted-average exercise price of the
options granted in 2004.
(3)   The expiration date
for the “All Optionees” line is shown as May 9, 2014, since that is the
applicable date for the vast majority of options granted during 2004.
(4)   Pursuant
to the rules of the SEC, the Company has elected to provide a grant date
present value for these option grants determined by a modified Black-Scholes
pricing model. The Company’s use of this model should not be construed as an
endorsement of its accuracy at valuing options. All stock option valuation
models, including the Black-Scholes model, require a prediction about the
future movement of the stock price. Among key assumptions utilized in this
pricing model were: (i) that the time of exercise of stock options would
be 73 months (39 months for PSOs) into the term of the option, which could be
for terms as long as ten years, in recognition of the historical exercise
patterns at the Company for these types of options; (ii) expected
volatility of 23.8 percent (21.6 percent for PSOs); (iii) risk-free rate
of return of 4.1 percent (2.7 percent for PSOs); and (iv) dividend yield
rate of 2.2 percent. No adjustments for non-transferability or risk of
forfeiture have been made. The Company expresses no opinion that the present
value will, in fact, be realized and expressly disclaims any representation to
that effect.
Aggregated
Option Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End Option Values
The
following table provides information on option exercises during 2004 and the
value of unexercised options at the end of 2004 for the Named Executive
Officers. 



Aggregated Option Exercises in Last Fiscal Year, and FY-End Option/SAR Value


 




 


 


Shares
  Acquired on


 


Value Realized


 


Number Of Unexercised
  Options at FY-End (#)


 


Value of Unexercised
  In-the-Money Options/SARs
  At FY-End ($)(1)


 

 



Name


 


Exercise (#)


 


($)(1)


 


Exercisable


 


Unexercisable


 


Exercisable


 


Unexercisable


 

 



W.J.
  McNerney, Jr.


 


 


81,999


 


 


$


2,546,068.95


 


2,011,105


 


 


756,247


 


 


$


48,265,561.42


 


$


9,774,400.00


 

 



H. J. Wiens


 


 


70,966


 


 


$


2,595,228.75


 


318,095


 


 


67,426


 


 


$


5,556,987.70


 


$


0.00


 

 



R. F. Ziegler


 


 


3,825


 


 


$


65,005.88


 


42,175


 


 


50,201


 


 


$


852,778.50


 


$


10,526.18


 

 



P. D. Campbell


 


 


12,699


 


 


$


322,230.05


 


103,301


 


 


88,162


 


 


$


2,096,139.59


 


$


425,683.68


 

 



C. Reich


 


 


83,095


 


 


$


2,448,274.58


 


377,547


 


 


0


 


 


$


4,827,063.79


 


$


0.00


 

 



Total


 


 


252,584


 


 


$


7,976,808.21


 


2,852,223


 


 


962,036


 


 


$


61,598,531.00


 


$


10,210,609.86


 

 




























(1)   The
“Value Realized” or the unrealized “Value of Unexercised In-the-Money Options
at FY-End” represents the aggregate difference between the market value on the
date of exercise or at December 31, 2004, in the case of the unrealized
values, and the applicable exercise prices. These differences accumulate over
what may be, in many cases, several years. These stock options all have option periods
of 10 years when first granted, and Progressive Stock Options have option
periods equal to the remaining option period of the primary nonqualified
options resulting in Progressive Stock Options.
35




Long-Term
Incentive Plan Awards Table
The
following table shows information on awards during 2004 under the Company’s
Performance Unit Plan for the Named Executive Officers.



 


 


 


 


Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards in Last Fiscal Year


 




Name


 


 


Number of
  Shares, Units
  or Other
  Rights (#)(1)


 


Performance or
  Other Period
  Until Maturation
  or Payout (2)


 


Estimated Future Payouts
  Under Non-Stock Price Based Plans


 




 


 


 


Threshold ($)


 


Target ($)


 


Maximum ($)


 




W. J. McNerney, Jr.


 


 


18,800


 


 


 


3 years


 


 


 


$


0


 


 


$


2,256,000


 


$


6,768,000


 




H. J. Wiens


 


 


2,400


 


 


 


3 years


 


 


 


$


0


 


 


$


288,000


 


$


864,000


 




R. F. Ziegler


 


 


2,400


 


 


 


3 years


 


 


 


$


0


 


 


$


288,000


 


$


864,000


 




P. D. Campbell


 


 


2,400


 


 


 


3 years


 


 


 


$


0


 


 


$


288,000


 


$


864,000


 




C.
  Reich


 


 


2,400


 


 


 


3 years


 


 


 


$


0


 


 


$


288,000


 


$


864,000


 





























 
Footnotes to Long-Term
Incentive Plan Awards Table
(1)  The
Company’s Performance Unit Plan (the “Plan”) provides long-term compensation to
approximately 115 key management personnel based upon the Company’s attainment
of long-term performance and growth criteria.
The Compensation Committee administers the Plan. The
Committee has sole discretion in the selection of participants, performance
criteria, size of awards, performance period, and the timing and form of
payment, as well as all other conditions regarding awards.
Awards made in 2004 under the Performance Unit Plan
are based on performance criteria that focus management attention on three key
factors that create stockholder value: Economic Profit Growth, Sales Growth and
Improvement in Net Working Capital Turns. The payout can vary from $0 to $360
per unit. More detail about current performance goals is available in the
Report of the Compensation Committee.
The right to receive
payment is contingent upon continued employment to the payment date, and is
subject to forfeiture prior to the payment date in the event of termination of
employment for any reason other than retirement under a pension plan of the
Company, death, or physical or mental disability. Participants receiving awards
during 2004, including the Named Executive Officers, will receive payment in
2006, provided that such individuals continue employment with the Company until
such payment date (except in the event of death, retirement, or disability).
Payment under the Plan may be made in cash, shares of the Company’s common
stock, or any combination of cash and stock, at the discretion of the
Compensation Committee. In the past, payment has been made only in cash.
(2)  The value of awards granted
for 2004 will be determined by the Company’s attainment of Economic Profit
Growth, Sales Growth and Improvement in Net Working Capital Turns performance
criteria during a three-year performance period of 2004, 2005, and 2006. More
detail about current performance goals is available in the Report of the
Compensation Committee.
Employment
Contracts, Termination of Employment, and
Change-In-Control Arrangements
Chief Executive Officer
3M has entered into an employment agreement with W.
James McNerney, Jr. providing for his employment as Chief Executive
Officer of the Company and for his election as Chairman of the Board of 3M. The
initial term of the agreement ends on January 1, 2004, but, beginning on January 1,
2002, the term automatically extends so that the remaining term is always two years.
The agreement 
36 


provides for an initial base
salary of $1,300,000 per year and for annual profit sharing initially designed
to pay $2,200,000 per year, depending on the Company’s performance. The
agreement also recognizes that Mr. McNerney will be entitled to
participate in the same retirement and welfare benefit programs that the
Company provides to other senior executives.
The agreement also required 3M to grant Mr. McNerney
the following stock options, restricted stock, and performance units under the
Performance Unit Plan:
Stock Options — Effective December 4, 2000, Mr. McNerney
was granted options to purchase 1,200,000 shares of 3M common stock at $51.525
per share. A portion of these options was designed to compensate Mr. McNerney
for the restricted stock and stock options he forfeited upon leaving his prior
employer. 800,000 of these options become exercisable in increments of 20
percent on the 1st of January in the years 2002 through 2006,
and the remaining 400,000 of these options become exercisable in increments of
one-third on the 1st of January in the years 2002 through 2004,
in each case assuming he remains employed by the Company. All 1,200,000 options
will become exercisable in full immediately upon termination of Mr. McNerney’s
employment by reason of death or disability, termination without cause, a
termination for good reason, or a change in control of the Company.
Restricted Stock — In order to compensate Mr. McNerney
for the restricted stock and stock options he forfeited upon leaving his prior
employer, the Company also granted Mr. McNerney 220,000 shares of
restricted stock. These shares of restricted stock vest in increments of 10
percent on the 1st of January in the years 2002 through 2011,
assuming he remains employed by the Company, although such vesting accelerates
in the event of the termination of Mr. McNerney’s employment by reason of
death or disability, termination without cause, a termination for good reason,
or a change in control of the Company.
Performance Units — The Company granted Mr. McNerney
10,000 performance units for the performance period commencing January 1,
2001, and ending December 31, 2003, subject to the terms of the Company’s
Performance Unit Plan. The value of these units and the amount paid to Mr. McNerney
will depend on the performance of the Company, but in no event will the value
be less than $100 per unit nor more than $200 per unit.
The agreement also requires 3M to provide Mr. McNerney
supplemental retirement benefits. If he remains employed by 3M for at least ten
years, the supplemental benefits will be equal in value to an annuity payable
for his lifetime commencing at age 62 and based on 50 percent of his highest
average annual compensation over a three-year period. If Mr. McNerney is
employed by 3M for less than ten years, the amount of these supplemental
retirement benefits will be prorated accordingly. The amount of such benefits
will be reduced by the amount of his benefits under 3M’s pension plans or the
pension plans of his prior employer. These supplemental retirement benefits
vest after five years of employment with the Company, although they vest
immediately in the event of the termination of his employment by reason of
death or disability, termination without cause, a termination for good reason,
or a change in control of the Company.
In the event that Mr. McNerney’s
employment is terminated by the Company other than for cause, or if Mr. McNerney
terminates his employment for good reason, then he will receive a lump-sum cash
payment equal to three times his annual base salary and profit sharing. As a
condition to receiving such payment, Mr. McNerney would be required to
sign a release of all claims against the Company.
Chief Financial Officer
3M has also entered into an employment agreement with
Patrick D. Campbell providing for his employment as Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of the Company. The term of this agreement began on February 1,
2002, and ends on February 1, 2005. If Mr. Campbell’s employment with
the Company continues beyond February 1, 2005, his employment would be
governed by the 
37 


same terms and conditions that
apply to other similar executives of the Company. The agreement provides for an
initial base salary of $450,000 per year and for annual profit sharing initially
designed to pay $300,000 per year, depending on the Company’s performance. The
agreement also recognizes that Mr. Campbell will be entitled to
participate in certain retirement and welfare benefit programs that the Company
provides to other senior executives, and will be entitled to reimbursement of
his reasonable relocation expenses. For purposes of 3M’s postretirement medical
program, Mr. Campbell will be credited with an opening retiree medical
credit balance as if he had completed 12 years of service with the Company.
The agreement also required 3M to grant Mr. Campbell
the following stock options, restricted stock, and performance units under the
Performance Unit Plan:
Stock Options — Effective February 1, 2002, Mr. Campbell
was granted options to purchase 48,000 shares of 3M common stock at $55.965 per
share. These options become exercisable in increments of one-third on the 1st
of February in the years 2003 through 2005, assuming he remains employed
by the Company. All 48,000 options will become exercisable in full immediately
upon termination of Mr. Campbell’s employment by reason of death or
disability, termination without cause, or termination for good reason, and in
that event such options shall remain exercisable for up to two years following Mr. Campbell’s
death, the termination of his employment due to disability, termination without
cause, or termination for good reason. In addition, any portion of these 48,000
options that have already become exercisable may be exercised by Mr. Campbell
within 90 days following his resignation from the Company without good reason.
In May 2002, Mr. Campbell was granted
options to purchase 40,000 shares of 3M common stock at $64.50 per share. All
40,000 options will become exercisable in full immediately upon termination of Mr. Campbell’s
employment by reason of death or disability, termination without cause, or
termination for good reason, and in that event such options shall remain
exercisable for up to two years following Mr. Campbell’s death, the
termination of his employment due to disability, termination without cause, or
termination for good reason. In addition, any portion of these 40,000 options
that have already become exercisable may be exercised by Mr. Campbell
within 90 days following his resignation from the Company without good reason.
Restricted Stock — The Company also granted Mr. Campbell
6,000 shares of restricted stock. These shares vest in increments of one-third
on the 1st of February in the years 2003 through 2005, assuming
he remains employed by the Company, although such vesting accelerates in the
event of termination of Mr. Campbell’s employment by reason of death or
disability, termination without cause, or termination for good reason.
Performance Units — The Company granted Mr. Campbell
2,400 performance units for the performance period commencing January 1,
2002, and ending December 31, 2004, subject to the terms of the Company’s
Performance Unit Plan. These units will vest at the end of such three-year
performance period, assuming he remains employed by the Company, although such
vesting accelerates in the event of termination of Mr. Campbell’s
employment by reason of death or disability, termination without cause, or
termination for good reason. The value of these units and the amount paid to Mr. Campbell
will depend on the performance of the Company, although in the event that the
vesting of such units accelerates due to the termination of Mr. Campbell’s
employment by reason of death or disability, termination without cause, or
termination for good reason, the value of such units is limited to their par
value ($120 per unit) multiplied by the ratio of the number of days he was
employed by the Company to the total number of days between February 1,
2002, and December 31, 2004.
The agreement also requires 3M to provide Mr. Campbell
supplemental retirement benefits. If he remains employed by 3M for at least ten
years, the supplemental benefits will be payable in the form of an annuity
payable for his lifetime commencing at age 60 and based on 45 percent of his
highest 
38 


average annual compensation
over a four-year period. If Mr. Campbell is employed by 3M for less than
10 years, the amount of these supplemental retirement benefits will be prorated
accordingly. The amount of such benefits will be reduced by the amount of his
benefits under 3M’s pension plans and the pension plans of his prior employer. Once
he has completed two years of employment with 3M, the sum of these supplemental
retirement benefits and the benefits payable under 3M’s pension plans will not
be less than $100,000 per year. These supplemental retirement benefits (other
than the $100,000 minimum benefit, which vests after two years of employment
with the Company) vest after five years of employment with the Company,
although they vest immediately in the event of the termination of his
employment by reason of death or disability, termination without cause, or
termination for good reason.
In the event that Mr. Campbell’s
employment is terminated by the Company other than for cause, or if Mr. Campbell
terminates his employment for a good reason, then he will receive a lump-sum
payment equal to (i) two times his annual base salary and profit sharing
if such termination occurs during the first five years following his employment
commencement date, or (ii) one times his annual base salary and profit
sharing if such termination occurs more than five but no more than 10 years
following his employment commencement date. As a condition to receiving such
payment, Mr. Campbell would be required to sign a release of all claims
against the Company.
Senior
Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel
3M has also entered into an employment agreement with
Richard F. Ziegler providing for his employment as Senior Vice President, Legal
Affairs and General Counsel of the Company. The term of this agreement began on
January 1, 2003, and ends on January 1, 2006. If Mr. Ziegler’s
employment with the Company continues beyond January 1, 2006, his
employment would be governed by the same terms and conditions that apply to
other similar executives of the Company. The agreement provides for an initial
base salary of $600,000 per year and for annual profit sharing initially
designed to pay $400,000 per year, depending on the Company’s performance. The
agreement also recognizes that Mr. Ziegler will be entitled to participate
in the same retirement and welfare benefit programs that the Company provides
to its other similarly situated executives, and will be entitled to
reimbursement of his reasonable relocation expenses. For purposes of 3M’s
postretirement medical program, Mr. Ziegler will be credited with an
opening retiree medical credit balance as if he had completed 13 years of
service with the Company.
The agreement also required 3M to pay Mr. Ziegler
the following cash bonus and to grant him the following stock options,
restricted stock, and performance units under the Performance Unit Plan:
Cash Bonus — The agreement provides for a cash-signing
bonus in the amount of $850,000, payable in equal installments on the 1st
of January in the years 2003 through 2005, assuming Mr. Ziegler
remains employed by the Company. Any unpaid installments would become payable
in full immediately upon the termination of Mr. Ziegler’s employment by
reason of death or disability, termination without cause, termination for good
reason, or a change in control of the Company.
Stock Options — In May 2003, Mr. Ziegler was
granted options to purchase 46,000 shares of 3M common stock at $61.85 per
share. All 46,000 options will become exercisable in full immediately upon
termination of Mr. Ziegler’s employment by reason of death or disability,
termination without cause, or termination for good reason, and in that event
such options shall remain exercisable for up to two years following Mr. Ziegler’s
death, the termination of his employment due to disability, termination without
cause, or termination for good reason. In addition, any portion of these 46,000
options that have already become exercisable may be exercised by Mr. Ziegler
within 90 days following his resignation from the Company without good reason.
Restricted Stock — The Company also granted Mr. Ziegler
12,000 shares of restricted stock. These shares vest in increments of one-third
on the 1st of January in the years 2006, 2008, and 2010, 
39 


assuming he remains employed
by the Company, although such vesting accelerates in the event of termination
of Mr. Ziegler’s employment by reason of death or disability, termination
without cause, termination for good reason, or a change in control of the
Company.
Performance Units — The Company granted Mr. Ziegler
2,400 performance units for the performance period commencing January 1,
2003, and ending December 31, 2005, subject to the terms of the Company’s
Performance Unit Plan. These units will vest at the end of such three-year
performance period, assuming he remains employed by the Company, although such
vesting accelerates in the event of termination of Mr. Ziegler’s
employment by reason of death or disability, termination without cause, or
termination for good reason. The value of these units and the amount paid to Mr. Ziegler
will depend on the performance of the Company, although in the event that the
vesting of such units accelerates due to the termination of Mr. Ziegler’s
employment by reason of death or disability, termination without cause, or
termination for good reason, the value of such units is limited to their par
value ($120 per unit) multiplied by the ratio of the number of days he was
employed by the Company to the total number of days between January 1,
2003, and December 31, 2005.
The agreement also requires 3M to provide Mr. Ziegler
supplemental retirement benefits. If he remains employed by 3M for at least
nine years, the supplemental benefits will be payable in the form of an annuity
payable for his lifetime commencing at age 62 and based on 45 percent of his
highest average annual compensation over a four-year period. If Mr. Ziegler
is employed by 3M for less than nine years, the amount of these supplemental
retirement benefits will be prorated accordingly. The amount of such benefits
will be reduced by the amount of his benefits under 3M’s pension plans. Once he
has completed two years of employment with 3M, the sum of these supplemental
retirement benefits and the benefits payable under 3M’s pension plans will not
be less than $300,000 per year. These supplemental retirement benefits (other
than the $300,000 minimum benefit, which vests after two years of employment
with the Company) vest after five years of employment with the Company,
although they vest immediately in the event of the termination of his
employment by reason of death or disability, termination without cause, or
termination for good reason.
In the event that Mr. Ziegler’s
employment is terminated by the Company other than for cause, or if Mr. Ziegler
terminates his employment for a good reason, then he will receive a lump-sum
payment equal to (i) two times his annual base salary and profit sharing
if such termination occurs during the first three years following his
employment commencement date, or (ii) one times his annual base salary and
profit sharing if such termination occurs more than three but no more than ten
years following his employment commencement date. As a condition to receiving
such payment, Mr. Ziegler would be required to sign a release of all
claims against the Company.
Retirement Benefits
The
Company maintains a tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan for its eligible
employees in the United States. Effective January 1, 2001, the Company amended
this plan (the Employee Retirement Income Plan, or the “ERIP”) to include a
pension equity feature for (1) employees hired or rehired on or after January 1,
2001, and (2) employees who voluntarily elected the pension equity feature
during the one-time choice election period in 2001. Of the Named Executive
Officers, Dr. Reich and Mr. Wiens participate in the non-pension
equity portion of the ERIP (the Portfolio I Pension Plan), while Mr. McNerney,
Mr. Ziegler, and Mr. Campbell participate in the pension equity
portion of the ERIP (the Portfolio II Pension Plan). Retirement benefits under
the ERIP are based on an employee’s years of service and average annual
earnings during the employee’s highest four consecutive years of service. Since
the Internal Revenue Code limits the amount of benefits that can be paid from
the ERIP as well as the amount of compensation upon which such benefits may be
earned, the Company also maintains several nonqualified pension plans for
eligible employees. The following table shows the 
40 


estimated annual benefits payable on retirement under
both the ERIP and these nonqualified plans to the Company’s eligible employees
in the United States.



Average
  Annual Earnings
  During the Highest
  Four Consecutive
  Years of Service (1)


 


Annual Portfolio I Retirement Benefits
  With Years of Service
  Indicated (2)


 




 


10
  Years


 


15
  Years


 


20
  Years


 


25
  Years


 


30
  Years


 


35
  Years


 


40
  Years


 




$   500,000    


 


$


73,460


 


$


110,190


 


$


146,921


 


$


183,651


 


$


220,381


 


$


257,111


 


$


285,861


 




750,000    


 


110,960


 


166,440


 


221,921


 


277,401


 


332,881


 


388,361


 


431,486


 




1,000,000    


 


148,460


 


222,690


 


296,921


 


371,151


 


445,381


 


519,611


 


577,111


 




1,250,000    


 


185,960


 


278,940


 


371,921


 


464,901


 


557,881


 


650,861


 


722,736


 




1,500,000    


 


223,460


 


335,190


 


446,921


 


558,651


 


670,381


 


782,111


 


868,361


 




4,500,000    


 


673,460


 


1,010,190


 


1,346,921


 


1,683,651


 


2,020,381


 


2,357,111


 


2,615,861


 




5,000,000    


 


748,460


 


1,122,690


 


1,496,921


 


1,871,151


 


2,245,381


 


2,619,611


 


2,907,111


 




5,500,000    


 


823,460


 


1,235,190


 


1,646,921


 


2,058,651


 


2,470,381


 


2,882,111


 


3,198,361


 




























 



Average
  Annual Earnings
  During the Highest
  Four Consecutive
  Years of Service (1)


 


Annual Portfolio II Retirement Benefits
  With Years of Service
  Indicated (2)


 




 


5
  Years


 


10
  Years


 


15
  Years


 


20
  Years


 




$   500,000    


 


$


41,156


 


$


79,569


 


$


115,238


 


$


146,791


 




750,000    


 


62,615


 


121,055


 


175,321


 


223,326


 




1,000,000    


 


84,073


 


162,541


 


235,405


 


299,861


 




1,250,000    


 


105,532


 


204,028


 


295,488


 


376,396


 




1,500,000    


 


126,990


 


245,514


 


355,572


 


452,931


 




4,500,000    


 


384,491


 


743,349


 


1,076,575


 


1,371,351


 




5,000,000    


 


427,408


 


826,322


 


1,196,742


 


1,524,421


 




5,500,000    


 


470,325


 


909,294


 


1,316,909


 


1,677,491


 



















 
Footnotes to Pension Plan Tables
(1)  Earnings include base salary
and profit sharing actually earned by the participant and does not include any
other forms of remuneration. The benefits are computed on the basis of
straight-life annuity amounts and are not subject to any deduction for social
security or other offset amounts.
(2)  Under the Portfolio I plan,
a participant may retire with an unreduced pension at age 60 (61 or 62 for
employees born after 1942) and if the participant’s age and years of service
total at least 90 (91 or 92 for employees born after 1942) he or she would receive
a social security bridge to age 62. Under the Portfolio II plan, a participant
may retire anytime after age 55 with at least five years of service and their
pension is based on the total pension value determined at retirement converted
to an actuarially equivalent annuity. The Named Executive Officers are
presently entitled to the respective years of service credit set opposite their
names:



                                    W.J.
  McNerney, Jr.*.


 


4


 




                                    H.J
  Wiens


 


37


 




                                    R.F.
  Ziegler*


 


2


 




                                    P.D.
  Campbell*


 


3


 




                                    C.
  Reich


 


36


 



 
*                    As described
above in the summaries of their employment agreements with the Company (in the
section entitled “Employment Contracts, Termination of Employment, and
Change-in-Control 
41 


Arrangements”), Mr. McNerney,
Mr. Ziegler, and Mr. Campbell will be entitled to receive
supplemental retirement benefits from the Company in addition to the annual
retirement benefits shown in the Pension Plan Tables above.
COMPENSATION
COMMITTEE REPORT ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The Compensation Committee of
the Board of Directors (the “Committee”) reviews the Company’s compensation
practices and policies, annually reviews and approves (subject to ratification
by the independent directors of the Board) the compensation of the Chief
Executive Officer, annually reviews and approves the compensation for the other
senior executives, evaluates the performance of the Chief Executive Officer,
and annually prepares this report on executive compensation for inclusion in
the proxy statement. The Committee’s membership is determined by the Board of
Directors, and is composed solely of independent nonemployee directors.
Executive
Compensation Philosophy and Practices
The Board
believes that providing appropriate motivation of the Company’s executives and
effective leadership are essential for establishing 3M’s preeminence in the
markets we serve and creating an attractive investment for stockholders. The
Committee is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Company executives are
highly qualified and are compensated in a manner that aligns the interests of
executives and stockholders. Consistent with this philosophy, the following
core principles provide a framework for the Company’s executive compensation
programs:
·       Total
compensation must be competitive to attract the best talent to 3M; motivate
employees to perform at their highest levels; reward outstanding achievement; and
retain those individuals with the leadership abilities and skills necessary for
building long-term stockholder value;
·       A
significant portion (targeted at 65 percent to 89 percent) of an executive’s
total compensation is variable and at risk and tied to both the annual and
long-term financial performance of the Company, such as economic profit and
stock price appreciation; and
·       Stock
ownership is emphasized so that executives manage from an owner’s perspective.
The Committee believes that broad and deep employee stock ownership effectively
aligns the interests of employees with those of stockholders and strongly
motivates executives to build stockholder value. The Committee has established
specific stock ownership guidelines for key management employees and has
created programs that encourage employees to have an ownership interest in the
Company.
The Committee annually surveys
the executive compensation practices of large industrial companies that are
likely competitors for executive talent. The Committee’s objective of
maintaining the total compensation at a competitive level has resulted in
short-term compensation (base salary and profit sharing) being at or very close
to the median and long-term compensation (Performance Unit Plan and stock
options) in the 50th to 75th percentile, with more
variability and risk based on Company performance.
Executive compensation is
linked to Company performance compared to specific financial and nonfinancial
objectives. These objectives range from achieving earnings and sales growth
targets to upholding the Company’s Statement of Corporate Values (which include
customer satisfaction through superior quality and value, attractive investor
return, ethical business conduct, respect for the environment, and employee
pride in the Company).
42




Components
of Executive Compensation
The compensation program for
executive officers consists of the following components: base salary, profit
sharing, Performance Unit Plan, stock options, and (in appropriate
circumstances) restricted stock. The Committee determines the amount of
compensation under each component of executive compensation granted to the
executive officers to achieve the appropriate ratio between performance-based
compensation and other forms of compensation, and to reflect the level of responsibility
of the executive officer.
Base Salary
The Committee establishes base
salaries annually in relation to base salaries paid by companies included in
the compensation surveys. Base salary for an executive officer is established
each year based on (1) a compensation range corresponding to the executive’s
responsibilities and (2) the executive’s overall individual job
performance.
Profit Sharing
Profit sharing is variable
compensation based on the quarterly economic profit of the Company and its
business units. Economic profit is defined as quarterly net operating income
minus a charge for operating capital used by the business. The economic profit
measurement is directly related to the creation of stockholder value since it
emphasizes the effective use of capital and solid profitable growth.
Compensation paid under the profit sharing plan fluctuates based on Company
performance.
The amount payable under this
plan is based on the number of shares of profit sharing assigned to a
participant, multiplied by an amount based on quarterly economic profit. The
total amount paid under this plan to the Company’s five most highly compensated
executive officers never exceeds one-half percent of the Company’s consolidated
net income for any period, and no single executive officer ever receives more
than one-sixth percent of the Company’s consolidated net income for any period.
Profit sharing payments to these individuals are subject to limitations when
individual amounts exceed specified relationships to planned compensation.
Currently, all profit sharing
payments are made in cash. However, the plan does permit the Committee to pay
all or a portion of the profit sharing payable to the Named Executive Officers
in shares of the Company’s common stock.
Performance Unit Plan
The Performance Unit Plan is
variable compensation based on the Company’s long-term performance. The amount
payable with respect to each performance unit granted is determined by and is
contingent upon attainment of the performance criteria selected each year by
the Compensation Committee over the applicable three-year performance period
(each year weighted equally).
The performance criteria
selected by the Compensation Committee for performance units granted during
2004 were designed to focus management attention on three key factors that
create stockholder value: Economic Profit Growth, Sales Growth, and Improvement
in Net Working Capital Turns.
Performance Criteria:
(1)   “Economic Profit Growth” is the percentage amount by which the
Economic Profit of the Company for a year exceeds the Economic Profit of the
Company for the immediately preceding year;
(2)   “Sales Growth” is the percentage amount by which the Company’s
worldwide organic sales growth (sales growth adjusted for acquisitions,
inflation and currency effects) exceeds worldwide real sales growth as
reflected in the Industrial Production Index of the top seven industrial
nations in which the Company does business; and
43 


(3)   “Improvement in Net Working Capital Turns” is the percentage
amount by which the Net Working Capital Turns of the Company for a year
increases from the Net Working Capital Turns for the immediately preceding
year; where the term “Net Working Capital Turns” means the Company’s net sales
during the fourth quarter of a year multiplied by four, and divided by the
Company’s Net Working Capital as of the end of such year; and where the term “Net
Working Capital” means the sum of the Company’s accounts receivable and
inventories, minus the Company’s accounts payable.
Performance Unit Plan Payments:
The amount payable for each
performance unit granted in 2004 is linked to the performance criteria of
Economic Profit Growth, Sales Growth, and Improvement in Net Working Capital
Turns. The amount payable may be anywhere from $0 to $360 per unit, depending
on the performance of the Company during the three-year performance period
ending on December 31, 2006. Payment for the units granted in 2004 will be
made no later than June 2007, in the form (at the discretion of the
Committee) of cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock.
Stock
Options and Restricted Stock
The objectives of the
Management Stock Ownership Program are to help the Company attract and retain
outstanding employees, and to promote the growth and success of the Company’s business
by aligning the financial interests of these employees with the other
stockholders of the Company. The Program authorizes the Committee to grant
stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, and other stock
awards to employees of the Company. Currently, the Committee makes annual
grants of stock options under the Program to the executive officers. These
options have an exercise price equal to the market price of the Company’s
common stock on the grant date, and generally expire ten years after the grant
date. Stock options encourage executives to become owners of the Company, which
further aligns their interests with those of the stockholders. These options
only have value to the recipients if the price of the Company’s stock
appreciates after the options are granted. Currently, the Committee has made
grants of restricted stock under the Program only to selected executive
officers and other employees in appropriate circumstances. These circumstances
have included the hiring of new executive officers as well as the need to
retain current executive officers. These shares of restricted stock vest over
periods ranging from one to ten years after the grant date, which encourage the
executives to remain employed by the Company until the shares have vested.
Stock Ownership
Guidelines
The Company’s stock ownership
guidelines are designed to increase an executive’s equity stake in 3M and more
closely align his or her interests with those of our stockholders. The
guidelines provide that the CEO should attain an investment position in 3M’s
stock equal to five times his or her annual base salary, Executive and Senior
Vice Presidents should attain an investment position in 3M’s stock equal to
three times their annual base salary, and Vice Presidents who are members of 3M’s
Quarterly Management Council should attain an investment position in 3M’s stock
equal to two times their annual base salary. While the stock ownership
guidelines provide that executives attain these investment positions in 3M
stock within five years of their appointment to these positions, most of our
executives have already attained or exceeded these investment positions.
Chief
Executive Officer Compensation
Effective January 1,
2001, the Company hired W. James McNerney, Jr. as Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer and entered into an employment agreement. In
determining Mr. McNerney’s compensation, the Board focused on competitive
levels of compensation for CEOs managing companies of similar size and
complexity and the importance of hiring a chief executive officer with the
strategic, financial, and leadership skills to ensure the continued growth and
success of the Company. In order to compensate Mr. McNerney for the
restricted stock and stock options he 
44 


forfeited
upon leaving his prior employer, the Company also granted Mr. McNerney
220,000 shares of restricted stock. These shares of restricted stock vest in
increments of ten percent on the 1st of January in the years
2002 through 2011, assuming he remains employed by the Company, although such
vesting accelerates in the event of the termination of Mr. McNerney’s
employment by reason of death or disability, termination without cause, a
termination for good reason, or a change in control of the Company.
The terms of Mr. McNerney’s
employment agreement appear under “Employment Contract, Termination of
Employment, and Change-In-Control Arrangements” of this proxy statement.
Subsequent to the hiring of Mr. McNerney
and the negotiation of his employment agreement, the Committee has adjusted his
compensation based on the same principles it follows in determining the
compensation of the Company’s other senior executives.
This compensation generally
consists of the same short-term and long-term components (base salary, profit
sharing, Performance Unit Plan awards, and stock options) as those of other
Named Executive Officers. A higher portion of Mr. McNerney’s total
compensation is variable and at risk by being tied to quantifiable measures of
the Company’s performance. These measures are Economic Profit, Economic Profit
Growth, Improvement in Net Working Capital Turns, Sales Growth, and
appreciation in the value of 3M stock.
In February 2005, the
Committee approved a six percent increase in Mr. McNerney’s base salary
(to $1.73 million) and annual planned performance — based profit sharing (to
$2.95 million) respectively, effective February 1, 2005. The Committee
approved this increase, which was subsequently ratified by all of the
nonemployee directors of the Company, following its completion of an evaluation
of Mr. McNerney’s performance during 2004. During 2004, the Committee also
approved a long-term incentive award to Mr. McNerney in the form of 18,800
units under the Company’s Performance Unit Plan as well as a grant of 375,000
nonqualified stock options under the Company’s Management Stock Ownership
Program. The Committee determined the size of this compensation increase as
well as the Performance Unit Plan award and stock option grant based upon a
review of competitive market data as well as Mr. McNerney’s individual
performance.
Limit on
Tax Deductible Compensation
Section 162(m) of
the Internal Revenue Code prohibits the Company from deducting compensation
paid in any year to certain executives in excess of $1 million but does not
subject performance-based compensation to this limit. The Committee continues
to emphasize performance-based compensation for executives and thus minimize
the effect of Section 162(m). However, the Committee believes that its
primary responsibility is to provide a compensation program that attracts,
retains, and rewards the executive talent necessary for the Company’s success.
Consequently, in any year the Committee may authorize nonperformance-based
compensation in excess of $1 million. The Committee recognizes that the loss of
the tax deduction may be unavoidable under these circumstances.
Conclusion
The
Committee is satisfied that the short-term and long-term compensation paid to
the executive officers of the Company is aligned with the Company’s strategic
objectives and ensures that payouts are determined by Company and employee
performance.
Submitted
by the Compensation Committee
Edward
A. Brennan, Chair
Robert
S. Morrison
Rozanne
L. Ridgway
Kevin W.
Sharer
Louis W. Sullivan
45 


COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER
PARTICIPATION
The members of the
Compensation Committee are named in the preceding section. No members of the
Compensation Committee were officers or employees of 3M or any of its
subsidiaries during the year, were formerly 3M officers, or had any
relationship otherwise requiring disclosure.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
The role of the Audit
Committee is to assist the Board of Directors in its oversight of the Company’s
financial reporting process. In performing its oversight function, the Audit
Committee has:
·       Considered
and discussed the audited consolidated financial statements with management,
which has primary responsibility for the financial statements;
·       Discussed
with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), the Company’s independent registered
public accounting firm, the matters required to be discussed by Statements on
Auditing Standards No. 61, Communication with Audit Committees, as
currently in effect;
·       Received
the written disclosures and the letter from PwC required by Independence Standards
Board Standard No.1, Independence Discussions with Audit Committees, as
currently in effect, and discussed the independence of PwC with them; and
·       Reviewed
the services provided by PwC, other than their audit services, and concluded
that the PwC’s provision of such other services is compatible with PwC’s
independence.
Based upon the review and discussions described above,
the Committee recommended to the Board of Directors that the audited
consolidated financial statements be included in the Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, for filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Submitted by the Audit Committee
Edward
M. Liddy, Chair
Linda G.
Alvarado
Vance D.
Coffman
Michael
L. Eskew
Aulana L. Peters
Audit Committee
Policy on Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
The Audit Committee is
responsible for appointing and overseeing the work of the independent
registered public accounting firm (“Independent Accounting Firm”). The Audit
Committee has established the following procedures for the pre-approval of all
audit and permissible non-audit services provided by the Independent Accounting
Firm.
Before engagement of the Independent Accounting Firm for the
next year’s audit, the Independent
Accounting Firm will submit a detailed description of services it
expects to render to the Company during that year for each of the following
categories of services to the Audit Committee for approval:
1.    Audit
services include audit work performed in the preparation of consolidated
financial statements, as well as work that generally only the Independent
Accounting Firm can reasonably be expected to provide, including comfort
letters, statutory audits, and attest services and consultation regarding
financial accounting and/or reporting standards.
2.    Audit
related services are for assurance and related services that are traditionally
performed by the Independent Accounting Firm, including due diligence related
to mergers and acquisitions, 
46 


employee benefit plan audits,
and special procedures required to meet certain regulatory requirements.
3.    Tax
services include all services performed by the Independent Accounting Firm’s
tax personnel except those services specifically related to the audit of the
financial statements, and includes fees in the areas of tax compliance, tax
planning, and tax advice.
4.    Other
services are those services not captured in the other categories.
Before engagement, the Audit Committee pre-approves
these services by category of service. The fees are budgeted and the Audit
Committee requires the Independent
Accounting Firm to report actual fees versus the budget periodically
throughout the year by category of service. During the year, circumstances may
arise when it may become necessary to engage the Independent Accounting Firm for additional services not
contemplated in the original pre-approval. In those instances, the Audit
Committee requires specific pre-approval before engaging the Independent Accounting Firm.
The Audit Committee has
delegated pre-approval authority to the chair of the committee. The chair must
report, for informational purposes only, any pre-approval decisions to the
Audit Committee at its next scheduled meeting.
FEES OF THE INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM
The following table presents
fees for professional services rendered by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the
audit of the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31,
2004, and December 31, 2003, and fees billed for other services rendered
by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP during those periods.
Audit and Non-Audit Fees ($ in millions)



 


 


2003


 


2004


 




Audit Fees: (1)


 


$


7.6


 


$


11.2


 




Audit Related Fees: (2)


 


0.8


 


0.6


 




Tax Fees: (3)


 


1.3


 


1.4


 




All Other Fees:


 


0.0


 


0.0


 




Total


 


$


9.7


 


$


13.2


 



 
(1)          Audit
fees consisted of audit work and review services, as well as work generally
only the Independent Accounting Firm can reasonably be expected to provide,
such as statutory audits, comfort letters, consents, and assistance with and
review of documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Audit
Fees for 2004 also included the audit of management’s report on the
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, as
required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 404).
(2)          Audit
related fees consisted principally of audits of employee benefit plans and
other attest services.
(3)          Tax
fees consist principally of tax planning and compliance.
47




 
3M STOCK PERFORMANCE GRAPH
The following graph compares the five-year cumulative
total stockholder return for 3M common stock (assuming reinvestment of
dividends) against the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index and the Dow
Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), both of which are well-known and published
industry indices. The Company is included in both the S&P 500 Stock Index
and the Dow Jones Industrial group of 30 companies. The Company, as a highly
diversified manufacturer and seller of a broad line of products, is not easily
categorized with other, more specific, industry indices.
The annual changes for the
five-year period shown in the graph are based on the assumption that $100 had
been invested in 3M stock and each index on December 31, 1999, as required
by SEC rules, and that all quarterly dividends were reinvested at the average
of the closing stock prices at the beginning and end of the quarter. The total
cumulative dollar returns shown on the graph represent the value that such
investments would have had on December 31, 2004.
Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return Among
3M, Dow Jones Industrial Average, and S&P 500 Index
3M Stock Performance (With Dividend Reinvestment)





Cumulative Return


 


1999


 


2000


 


2001


 


2002


 


2003


 


2004


 




3M


 


100.0


 


126.2


 


126.4


 


134.5


 


189.1


 


185.8


 




DJIA


 


100.0


 


95.3


 


90.1


 


76.6


 


98.2


 


103.5


 




S&P 500


 


100.0


 


90.9


 


80.1


 


62.5


 


80.4


 


89.1


 




 
48




 
REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBMISSION OF STOCKHOLDER PROPOSALS
FOR NEXT YEAR’S ANNUAL MEETING
In order for a stockholder proposal to be considered
for inclusion in 3M’s proxy statement for next year’s Annual Meeting, our
Corporate Secretary must receive the proposal no later than 5 p.m. Central
Time on November 28, 2005. Such proposals must be sent via registered,
certified, or express mail (or other means that allows the stockholder to
determine when the proposal was received by the Corporate Secretary) to: Gregg
M. Larson, Associate General Counsel and Secretary, 3M Company, 3M Center,
Building 0220-13-W-39, St. Paul, MN 55144-1000. Such
proposals must contain the information required under 3M’s Bylaws, and also
must comply with the SEC’s regulations regarding the inclusion of stockholder
proposals in Company sponsored proxy materials, such as the stockholder
continuing to own a minimum number of shares until the Annual Meeting and
appearing in person or through an authorized representative at the meeting to
present the proposal.
Alternatively, stockholders intending to present a
proposal at next year’s Annual Meeting without having it included in the
Company’s proxy statement must comply with the requirements set forth in the
Company’s Bylaws. Our Bylaws require, among other things, that our Corporate
Secretary receive written notice from the record stockholder no earlier than January 9,
2006, and no later than February 8, 2006. The notice must contain the
information required by the Bylaws, a copy of which is available upon request
to our Corporate Secretary.
Proposals received by the Corporate Secretary after
the dates mentioned will not be included in the proxy statement or acted upon
at the Annual Meeting.
By Order of the Board of
Directors.

GREGG M. LARSON
Associate
General Counsel and Secretary
49




APPENDIX
A
3M CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GUIDELINES
(As amended February 14,
2005)
The Board of Directors (the “Board”)
of 3M Company (“3M” or the “Company”) has adopted these guidelines, which in
conjunction with the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and Board Committee
charters, form the framework for governance of the Company.
A.              THE
ROLES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT
  1.       The Board of Directors — The business of the Company is
conducted under the oversight of the Board of Directors. The Board selects the
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and delegates to the CEO the authority and
responsibility to manage the Company’s operations. The Board of Directors
serves as elected representatives of the shareholders, acts as an advisor and
counselor to the CEO and senior management, and oversees management performance
on behalf of shareholders. The Board also oversees the Company’s strategic and
business planning process and reviews and assesses management’s approach to
addressing significant risks facing the Company.
  2.       Management — The CEO and senior management are responsible
for running the Company’s business operations.
B.              BOARD
COMPOSITION AND LEADERSHIP
  1.       Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer — The
Board has the authority to decide whether the positions of Chairman and CEO
should be held by the same person and shall determine the best arrangement for
the Company and its shareholders in light of all relevant and changing
circumstances. The Board currently believes that the same individual should
hold the position of Chairman and CEO (Chairman/CEO).
  2.       Size of the Board — The number of Directors should not
exceed a number that can function efficiently. The Nominating and Governance
Committee considers and makes recommendations to the Board concerning the
appropriate size and needs of the Board.
  3.       Board Independence — The Board
believes in having a substantial majority of independent Directors on the 3M
Board. A Director is “independent” if the Board affirmatively determines that
the Director has no material relationship with the Company directly or as a
partner, shareholder or officer of an organization that has a relationship with
the Company and otherwise meets the requirements for independence of the
listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. The independent Directors
will make the Board decisions on corporate governance matters.
  4.       Board Membership Criteria — The Nominating and Governance
Committee periodically reviews with the Board the appropriate skills and
characteristics required of Board members given the current Board composition. It
is the intent of the Board that the Board, itself, will be a high performance
organization creating competitive advantage for the Company. To perform as
such, the Board will be comprised of individuals who have distinguished records
of leadership and success in their arena of activity and who will make
substantial contributions to Board operations and effectively represent the
interests of all stockholders. The Board’s assessment of Board candidates
includes, but is not limited to, consideration of: (i) roles and
contributions valuable to the business community, (ii) personal qualities
of leadership, character, judgment and whether the candidate possesses and
maintains throughout service on the Board a reputation in the community at
large of integrity, trust, respect, competence and adherence to the highest
ethical standards, (iii) relevant knowledge and diversity of background
and experience in such things as business, manufacturing, technology, finance
and accounting, marketing, international business, 
A-1 


government and the like; or (iv) whether
the candidate is free of conflicts and has the time required for preparation,
participation and attendance at all meetings. A Director’s qualifications in
light of these criteria is considered at least each time the Director is
re-nominated for Board membership.
  5.       Selection of New Director Candidates — The
Nominating and Governance Committee considers qualified director candidates
from several sources, including stockholders, and evaluates candidates against
the current board membership criteria described above. In addition to these
minimum requirements, the Committee will also evaluate whether the candidate’s
skills are complementary to the existing Board members’ skills, the Board’s
needs for particular expertise in fields such as business, manufacturing,
technology, financial, marketing, international, governmental, or other areas
of expertise, and assess the candidate’s impact on Board dynamics and effectiveness.
The Committee selects candidates that best suit the Board’s current needs and
recommends one or more of such individuals to the Board. Exacting membership
criteria and a rigorous selection process help ensure that candidates
recommended to the Board will effectively represent the balanced best interests
of all stockholders.
  6.       Director Orientation and Continuing Education — The Company
provides Directors with an orientation and education program to familiarize
them with the Company’s business operations and plans, industry trends and
corporate governance practices, as well as ongoing education on issues facing
the Company and on subjects that would assist the Directors in discharging
their duties.
  7.       Directors Who Experience Change in Present Job Responsibilities or
Other Relevant Circumstances — When a Director’s principal
occupation or business affiliation changes, or other circumstances arise which
may raise questions about the Director’s continuing qualifications in relation
to the Board Membership Criteria set forth above, then the Director will tender
her/his resignation, or the Nominating and Governance Committee will ask for
such tender. The Nominating and Governance Committee will consider the tendered
resignation and recommend to the Board the action to be taken.
  8.       Service On Other For-Profit Boards — Independent Directors
are encouraged to evaluate carefully the time required to serve on other boards
(excluding non-profit) taking into account board attendance, preparation,
participation and effectiveness on these boards. Independent Directors must
advise the Chairman/CEO before accepting an invitation to serve on another
board to enable the Company to determine whether (i) any regulatory issues
or potential conflicts are raised by the Director accepting such an invitation
and (ii) the Director will have the time required for preparation,
participation and attendance at 3M Board meetings. Independent Directors who
also serve as CEOs or in equivalent positions should not serve on more than two
boards of public companies in addition to the 3M Board, and other independent
directors should not serve on more than five other boards of public companies
in addition to the 3M Board. The Board expects that current positions in excess
of these limits will be in compliance with these limits by 3M’s Annual Meeting
in May 2006.
  9.       Retirement Policy — Each non-employee Director must tender
her/his resignation at the annual meeting following her or his 72nd
birthday. If circumstances dictate, the Nominating and Governance Committee may
ask a Director to continue to serve on the Board past age 72.
 10.       Board Compensation Review — The Nominating and Governance
Committee will periodically receive reports on the status of Board compensation
in relation to other large U.S. companies and is responsible for recommending
to the Board changes in compensation for non-employee Directors.
A-2 


 11.       Board’s Interaction with Stakeholders — The Chairman/CEO is
responsible for establishing effective communications with the Company’s
stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, employees, communities,
suppliers, creditors, governments and corporate partners. It is the policy of
the Board that management speaks for the Company. This policy does not preclude
independent Directors from meeting with stakeholders, but management where
appropriate should be present at such meetings. 
C.             BOARD
OPERATIONS
  1.       Selection of Agenda Items for Board Meetings — At the first
Board meeting of each year, the Chairman/CEO will propose for the Board’s
approval agenda items to be discussed during the course of the year. Before
each meeting, the Chairman/CEO will review proposed agenda items that fall
within the scope of responsibilities of a Board committee with the chair of
that committee and distribute the agenda in advance to the Board. Any Board
member may ask to include items on the agenda.
  2.       Board Materials Distributed in Advance — Board members
receive materials related to agenda items in advance of Board meetings so that
the Directors may prepare to discuss the items at the meeting. Sensitive
subjects may be discussed at the meeting without distributing written materials
in advance or at the meeting.
  3.       Director Responsibilities — Directors must exercise their
business judgment to act in the best interests of the shareholders and the
Company. In discharging this obligation, Directors reasonably may rely on the
Company’s senior executives and its advisors and auditors. Directors are
expected to attend the Annual Meeting of Stockholders and attend and
participate in all meetings of the Board and of committees on which they serve
and to spend the time needed and prepare for and meet as frequently as
necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
  4.       Board Presentations and Access to Employees — Members of
senior management may be invited to attend part or all of a Board meeting in
order to participate in discussions. Generally, the executive responsible for
an area of the Company’s operations the Board is to consider makes the
presentation. Board members have complete access to all other members of
management and Company employees.
  5.       Board Access to Independent Advisors — The Board and its
committees may seek advice from outside advisors as appropriate. The Board
shall have sole authority to approve related fees and retention terms.
  6.       Presiding Director at Executive Sessions  — Independent
Directors regularly meet without the Chairman/CEO and may select a Director to
chair the meeting. The chairs of the Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Governance,
and Public Issues Committees of the Board each preside as the  chair at executive sessions of the
independent Directors at which the principal items to be considered are within
the scope of the committee chair’s authority. The Board believes that this
practice ensures leadership at all executive sessions of the independent
Directors.
D.              BOARD
COMMITTEES
  1.       Committees — The current committees are Audit, Compensation,
Nominating and Governance, and Public Issues.
  2.       Assignment and Term of Service of Committee Members — The
Board is responsible for the appointment of committee members and chairs, based
on recommendations of the Nominating and Governance Committee. The Board at its
first meeting following the annual meeting of stockholders shall elect the
members of each Committee.
A-3 


  3.       Agenda, Frequency, Length and Reports of Committee Meetings —
The chair of each committee approves the agenda, length of and attendance at
each committee meeting and determines the frequency of meetings. Materials
related to agenda items are given to the committee members sufficiently in
advance to allow the members to prepare for discussing the items at the
meeting. The committee chairs report a summary of their meeting to the Board
following each regular committee meeting.
  4.       Membership — All Board members may serve on the Public
Issues Committee, but only independent Directors may serve on the Audit,
Compensation, and Nominating and Governance Committees.
  5.       Responsibilities — The Board
periodically reviews the responsibilities of each committee and approves the
committee charters, copies of which are attached to these guidelines.
E.               BOARD
AND MANAGEMENT EVALUATION
  1.       Formal Evaluation of the Chairman/CEO — The Compensation
Committee, in consultation with the Chairman/CEO, sets annual and long-term
performance goals for the Chairman/CEO. The Chair of the Compensation Committee
leads the discussion of the Chairman/CEO’s performance against such goals with
the independent Directors and communicates the Board’s evaluation to the
Chairman/CEO. The Compensation Committee will use the evaluation when
determining the compensation of the Chairman/CEO.
  2.       Board Self-Assessment — The Board will conduct an annual
self-evaluation to determine whether it and its committees are functioning
effectively. The Nominating and Governance Committee will receive comments from
all Directors and share those comments with the Board. Based on the comments
and further discussion, the Board will make an assessment specifically
reviewing areas in which the Board and/or the management believe improvements
could be made to increase the effectiveness of the Board and its committees.
  3.       Succession Planning — The Board plans the succession to the
position of Chairman/CEO and certain other senior management positions. To
assist the Board, the Chairman/CEO annually assesses senior managers and their
succession potential. The Chairman/CEO also provides the Board with an
assessment of persons considered potential successors to certain senior
management positions.
  4.       Management Development — The Chairman/CEO annually should
report to the Board on the Company’s program for management development.
A-4 


Policy on Adoption of a Rights Plan
In 2002 and 2003, a 3M stockholder submitted a
shareholder proposal to 3M regarding the approval process for adopting a
stockholders’ rights plan (also known as a “poison pill”). 3M does not have a
rights plan and is not currently considering adopting one. The Board continues
to believe, however, that there may be circumstances under which adoption of a
rights plan would be necessary to give the Board the negotiating power and
leverage to obtain the best result for 3M stockholders in the context of a
takeover effort.
Following consideration of the favorable vote the
stockholder proposal received and in light of this belief, the Board has
adopted and reaffirmed a statement of policy on this topic. The Board’s policy
is that it will only adopt a rights plan if either (1) stockholders have
approved adoption of the rights plan or (2) the Board in its exercise of
its fiduciary responsibilities, including a majority of the independent members
of the Board, makes a determination that, under the circumstances existing at
the time, it is in the best interests of 3M’s stockholders to adopt a rights
plan without the delay in adoption that would come from the time reasonably
anticipated to seek stockholder approval.
The Board has directed the Nominating and Governance
Committee to review this policy statement on an annual basis and to report to
the Board on any recommendations it may have concerning the policy. The terms
of the policy, as in effect, will be included in 3M’s published Corporate
Governance Guidelines and its proxy statement.
A-5




APPENDIX
B
3M
Company Board of Directors
Audit Committee Charter
(As Amended February14, 2005)
A.               Purpose: The purpose of the Audit Committee (the “Committee”)
of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of 3M Company (the “Company”) is to
assist the Board in its oversight of (i) the integrity of the Company’s
financial statements, (ii) the Company’s compliance with legal and
regulatory requirements, (iii) the qualifications and independence of the
Company’s independent registered public accounting firm (the “Independent Accounting Firm”), and (iv) performance
of the Company’s internal auditing department (“Internal Audit”) and the Independent Accounting Firm.
B.              Membership:
The Committee’s membership is determined by the Board upon recommendation of
the Nominating and Governance Committee and consists of at least three
directors. The members of the Committee shall meet the independence and
experience requirements of the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange
and the requirements for audit committee service set forth in the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Act”), and the rules and
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). At least one
member of the Committee shall be an “audit committee financial expert” as
determined by the Board in compliance with criteria established by the SEC.
Committee members shall not serve on the audit committees of more than two
other public companies unless the Board determines that such service does not
impair the member’s ability to serve effectively on the Committee.
C.              Roles and
Responsibilities: The Committee’s responsibility is one of
oversight. The management of the Company is responsible for the preparation of
complete and accurate annual and quarterly consolidated financial statements (“financial
statements”) in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States and for maintaining appropriate accounting and financial
reporting principles and policies and internal controls designed to assure
compliance with accounting standards and laws and regulations. The Independent Accounting Firm is
responsible for planning and conducting in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board an audit of the Company’s annual
consolidated financial statements and a review of the Company’s quarterly
financial statements. The Committee shall have the authority to take any and
all acts that it deems necessary to carry out its oversight function, including
but not limited to:
1.               Financial Reporting and Disclosure
a.                Review and discuss
the annual audited financial statements and quarterly financial statements with
management and the Independent Accounting Firm, including the disclosures under
the caption “Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.” The Committee shall make a recommendation to the Board
as to whether the audited financial statements should be included in the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K.
b.               Review the Company’s
financial reporting processes, disclosure and internal controls and procedures,
and the process for the CEO and CFO quarterly certifications required by the
SEC with respect to financial statements and the Company’s disclosure and
internal controls and procedures. Such review shall include a consideration of
major issues regarding accounting principles and financial statement
presentations, including any significant changes in the Company’s selection or
application of accounting principles, and any reports by the CEO and CFO
regarding major issues as to the adequacy of the Company’s disclosure and
internal controls and procedures and any special audit steps adopted in light
of identified deficiencies.
B-1 


c.                Review and discuss
with management (including the senior internal audit executive) and the
Independent Accounting Firm the Company’s internal controls report and the
Independent Accounting Firm’s attestation of the report prior to filing of the
Company’s Form 10-K.
d.               Obtain and
periodically review a report from the Independent Accounting Firm, describing (i) all
critical accounting policies and practices to be used in the financial
statements, (ii) all alternative treatments of financial information
within generally accepted accounting principles that have been discussed with
management, ramifications of the use of such alternative disclosures and
treatments, and the treatment preferred by the Independent Accounting Firm, and
(iii) other material written communications between the Independent
Accounting Firm and management, such as any management letter or schedule of
unadjusted differences. Review any reports on such topics or similar topics
prepared by management, including any significant financial reporting issues
and judgments made in connection with the preparation of the financial
statements. Discuss with the Independent Accounting Firm any material issues
raised in such reports.
e.                Discuss earnings
press releases, as well as financial information and earnings guidance provided
to analysts and rating agencies, provided that such discussions may be done
generally (i.e., by discussing the types of information to be disclosed and the
type of presentation to be made). The management will review with the chair of
the Committee earnings press releases prior to issuance.
f.                    Discuss with management
and the Independent Accounting Firm the effect of regulatory and accounting
initiatives, as well as off-balance sheet structures, if any, on the Company’s
financial statements.
2.               Internal Audit
a.                Review the
charter, annual plan and scope of work of Internal Audit, including its
responsibilities and staffing.
b.               Review, as
appropriate, the results of internal audits and discuss related significant
internal control matters with the Company’s internal auditor and Company
management.
c.                Discuss the adequacy
of the Company’s internal controls with Internal Audit.
d.               Review the
appointment and periodically evaluate the performance of the senior internal
auditing executive, who shall have direct access to the Committee.
3.               Independent Accounting Firm
a.                Responsible for
the appointment, retention, termination, compensation and oversight of the
Independent Accounting Firm. The Committee shall also be responsible for the
resolution of disagreements between management and the Independent Accounting
Firm. The Independent Accounting Firm shall report directly to the Committee.
b.               Review the scope of
the annual audit and services to be provided by the Independent Accounting Firm
during the year. Pre-approve all auditing services, internal control-related
services and permitted non-audit services to be provided to the Company by the
Independent Accounting Firm, subject to any exceptions provided by the Act. The
chair of the Committee may pre-approve any such services according to the
procedures approved by the Committee, provided that any approval by the chair
must be presented to the Committee at its next meeting.
B-2 


c.                Obtain and review,
at least annually, a report from the Independent Accounting Firm describing: (i) the
Independent Accounting Firm’s internal quality-control procedures; (ii) any
material issues raised by the most recent internal quality-control review, or
peer review, of the Independent Accounting Firm, or by any inquiry or
investigation by governmental or professional authorities, within the preceding
five years, respecting one or more independent audits carried out by the
Independent Accounting Firm, and any steps taken to deal with any such issues;
and (iii) all relationships between the Independent Accounting Firm and
the Company, including the matters set forth in Independence Standards Board
Standard No. 1. Discuss with the Independent Accounting Firm any issues or
relationships disclosed in such report that, in the judgment of the Committee,
may have an impact on the competence or independence of the Independent
Accounting Firm.
d.               Discuss with the
Independent Accounting Firm the matters required to be discussed pursuant to
the Statement on Auditing Standards No. 61, Communication with Audit
Committees, as currently in effect, including any audit problems or
difficulties encountered in performing the audit and management’s response, and
disagreements with management.
e.                Obtain assurance
from the Independent Accounting Firm that the audit was conducted in a manner
consistent with Section 10A(b) of the Act.
f.                    Review and
periodically evaluate the performance of the lead audit partner of the
Independent Accounting Firm and assure the regular rotation of the lead audit
partner and the audit partner responsible for reviewing the audit as required
by law.
g.               Establish policies
for the Company’s hiring of employees or former employees of the Independent
Accounting Firm who participated in any capacity in the audit of the Company.
4.               Risk Management and Compliance
a.                Discuss policies
and procedures with respect to risk assessment and risk management, the Company’s
major risk exposures, and the steps management has taken to monitor and
mitigate such exposures.
b.               Review the
effectiveness of the system for monitoring compliance with laws, regulations
and the Company’s business conduct policies, and the results of management’s
investigation and follow-up on any fraudulent acts or accounting
irregularities.
c.                Periodically
obtain reports from management regarding compliance.
d.               Review with the
Company’s General Counsel legal matters that may have a material impact on the
consolidated financial statements and any material reports or inquiries
received from regulators or governmental agencies regarding compliance.
e.                Establish
procedures for (i) the receipt, retention, and treatment of complaints
received by the Company regarding accounting, internal accounting controls, or
auditing matters; and (ii) the confidential, anonymous submission by
Company employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters.
Review periodically with management and Internal Audit these procedures and any
significant complaints received.
5.               Meetings, Reports, Charter Review, Performance Evaluation and Outside
Advisors
a.                The Committee
shall meet with such frequency and at such intervals as it shall determine is
necessary to carry out its duties and responsibilities, but in any case, not 
B-3 


less than four times a year.
The Committee shall meet separately, periodically, with management, with
internal auditors and with the Independent Accounting Firms. A
majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. A majority of the members
present shall decide any matter brought before the Committee.
b.               Report regularly to
the Board.
c.                Prepare the report
of the Committee required to be included in the Company’s annual proxy
statement.
d.               Review the adequacy
of this Charter at least annually and recommend any proposed changes to the
Board for approval.
e.                Conduct an annual
performance evaluation of the Committee.
f.                    The Committee
shall have the authority to retain such outside legal, accounting or other
advisors, as the Committee may deem appropriate in its sole discretion. The
Committee shall have sole authority to approve related fees and retention
terms.
B-4




APPENDIX
C
3M
Company Board of Directors
Compensation Committee Charter
(As Amended February 14, 2005)
A.               Purpose: The Compensation
Committee (the “Committee”) of the Board of
Directors of 3M Company reviews the Company’s compensation practices and
policies, annually reviews and approves (subject to ratification by the
independent directors of the Board) the compensation for the CEO, annually
reviews and approves the compensation for the other senior executives,
evaluates CEO performance, and annually prepares a report on executive
compensation for inclusion in the Company’s proxy statement.
B.              Membership:
The Committee’s membership is determined by the Board and consists of at least
three directors. All members of the Committee shall meet the independence requirements
of the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange, qualify as “Nonemployee
Director” for purposes of Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, and satisfy the requirements of “outside directors”
for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
C.              Roles and
Responsibilities:
The responsibilities of the Committee include:
1.               Compensation Practices and Policies
a.                Review
compensation practices and policies of the Company to ensure they provide
appropriate motivation for corporate performance and increased shareholder
value.
b.               Oversee the
administration of the Company’s stock and deferred compensation programs, and
determine the employees who receive awards and the size of those awards under
the Company’s Management Stock Ownership Program.
c.                Make
recommendations to the Board of Directors regarding the adoption, amendment or
termination of equity compensation programs that require shareholder approval.
d.               Approve the
adoption, amendment and termination of incentive compensation and deferred
compensation programs for employees of the Company.
e.                Oversee the
administration of the Company’s deferred compensation plans and programs for
its nonemployee directors, and either approve or recommend for the approval of
the Board of Directors amendments to such plans and programs.
2.               Executive Compensation
a.                Periodically
survey the executive compensation practices of other large companies.
b.               Annually review and
approve, for the senior executives of the Company (other than the CEO), (i) the
annual base salary, (ii) profit sharing, (iii) awards under the
Company’s Performance Unit Plan, and (iv) stock option grants and other
stock awards under the Company’s Management Stock Ownership Program.
c.                Approve for the
senior executives of the Company (other than the CEO) employment agreements,
severance arrangements, change-in-control arrangements and any special or
supplemental benefits.
d.               Establish and
certify the satisfaction of performance goals for performance-based compensation
as required under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
e.                Review shareholder
proposals relating to executive compensation matters and recommend to the Board
the Company’s response to such proposals.
C-1 


3.               CEO Compensation
a.                Review and approve
annual corporate goals and objectives for the CEO.
b.               The Chairman of the
Committee leads the discussion of the CEO’s performance against such goals and
objectives with the independent directors and communicates the Board’s
evaluation to the CEO.
c.                Annually review
and approve (based on this evaluation), subject to ratification by the
independent directors of the Board, (i) the CEO’s annual base salary, (ii) the
CEO’s annual planned profit sharing, (iii) awards to the CEO under the
Company’s Performance Unit Plan, and (iv) stock option grants and other
stock awards to the CEO under the Company’s Management Stock Ownership Program.
In determining the long-term incentive component of CEO compensation, the
Committee will consider the Company’s performance and relative shareholder
return, the value of similar incentive awards to CEOs at other large companies,
and the awards given to the CEO in past years.
d.               Approve, subject to
ratification by the independent directors of the Board, for the CEO employment
agreements, severance arrangements, change-in-control arrangements and any
special or supplemental benefits.
4.               Meetings, Reports, Charter Review, Performance Evaluation and Outside
Advisors
a.                Hold regular
meetings of the Committee, reporting significant matters arising from such
meetings to the Board. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. A
majority of the members present shall decide any matter brought before the
Committee.
b.               Prepare a report on
executive compensation required by the rules of the Securities and
Exchange Commission for inclusion in the Company’s annual proxy statement.
c.                Review and
reassess the adequacy of this Charter at least annually and submit any changes
to the Board for approval.
d.               Conduct an annual
performance evaluation of the Committee.
e.                The Committee
shall have the authority to retain such compensation consultants, outside
counsel and other advisors as the Committee may deem appropriate in its sole
discretion. The Committee shall have sole authority to approve related fees and
retention terms.
C-2




APPENDIX
D
3M Company Board of
Directors
Nominating and Governance Committee Charter
(As
Amended February 14, 2005)
A.               Purpose:   The Nominating
and Governance Committee (the “Committee”) of the Board of Directors of
3M Company establishes Board membership criteria, assists the Board by
identifying individuals qualified to become Board members, recommends to the
Board matters of corporate governance, facilitates the annual review of the
performance of the Board and its committees, and periodically reviews CEO and
management succession plans.
B.              Membership:   The
Committee’s membership is determined by the Board and consists of at least
three directors. The members of the Committee shall meet the independence
requirements of the New York Stock Exchange.
C.              Roles and
Responsibilities:   The responsibilities of the Committee
include:
1.   Board and
Committee Membership
a.                Periodically
review with the Board the appropriate size of the Board and the requisite
skills and characteristics of its members as set forth below.
b.               It
is the intent of the Board that the Board, itself, will be a high performance
organization creating competitive advantage for the Company. To perform as
such, the Board will be comprised of individuals who have distinguished records
of leadership and success in their arena of activity and who will make
substantial contributions to Board operations and effectively represent the
interests of all stockholders.
c.                The
Board’s assessment of Board candidates includes, but is not limited to,
consideration of: (i) roles and contributions valuable to the business
community; (ii) personal qualities of leadership, character, judgment, and
whether the candidate possesses and maintains throughout service on the Board a
reputation in the community at large of integrity, trust, respect, competence
and adherence to the highest ethical standards; (iii) relevant knowledge
and diversity of background and experience in such things as business,
manufacturing, technology, finance and accounting, marketing, international
business, government and the like; or (iv) whether the candidate is free
of conflicts and has the time required for preparation, participation and
attendance at all meetings. A Director’s qualifications in light of these
criteria is considered at least each time the Director is re-nominated for
Board membership.
d.               Review
the resignation of directors whose principal occupation or business association
changes, or other circumstances arise which may raise questions about the
Director’s continuing qualifications in relation to the Board membership
criteria referred to above and recommend to the Board what action the Board
should take with respect to the resignation.
e.                Review
the Board’s committee structure and recommend to the Board the appointment of
committee members and chairs.
2.   Selection of
Qualified Director Candidates
a.                Identify
individuals that the Committee believes are qualified to become Board members
in accordance with the Board Membership Criteria set forth above, and recommend
that the Board select such nominee or nominees to stand for election at the
next meeting of stockholders of the Company in which directors will be elected.
D-1 


b.               In
the event there is a vacancy on the Board, identify individuals that the
Committee believes are qualified to become Board members in accordance with the
Board Membership Criteria set forth above, and recommend such person or persons
for appointment to the Board.
c.                Review
and evaluate all stockholder nominees for director (submitted in accordance
with the Company’s Bylaws) in accordance with the Board Membership Criteria set
forth above.
d.               The
Nominating and Governance Committee considers qualified director candidates
from several sources, including stockholders, and evaluates candidates against
the current board membership criteria described above. In addition to these
minimum requirements, the Committee will also evaluate whether the candidate’s
skills are complementary to the existing Board members’ skills, the Board’s
needs for particular expertise in fields such as business, manufacturing,
technology, financial, marketing, international, governmental, or other areas
of expertise, and assess the candidate’s impact on Board dynamics and
effectiveness. The Committee selects candidates that best suit the Board’s
current needs and recommends one or more of such individuals to the Board.
Exacting membership criteria and a rigorous selection process help ensure that
candidates recommended to the Board will effectively represent the balanced
best interests of all stockholders.
3.   Corporate
Governance 
a.                Review
the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines at least annually, and recommend
any proposed changes to the Board for approval.
b.               Develop
and recommend to the Board standards to be applied in making determinations on
the types of relationships that constitute material relationships between the
Company and a director for purposes of determining director independence.
c.                Review
and recommend to the Board proposed changes to the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation
and Bylaws.
d.               Review
shareholder proposals relating to corporate governance matters and recommend to
the Board the Company’s response to such proposals.
4.   Board and
Committee Self-Assessment. Develop and recommend to the Board for
its approval an annual self-assessment process of the Board and its committees
and oversee the process. Based on this process, the Board will make an
assessment reviewing areas in which the Board and/or Management believe
improvements could be made to increase the effectiveness of the Board.
5.   Succession
Planning. Review periodically with the Chairman/CEO his assessment
of corporate officers and succession plans relating to their positions, and to
make recommendations to the Board with respect to the selection of individuals
to occupy these positions.
6.   Miscellaneous
Matters
a.                Periodically
review and recommend to the Board changes in Board compensation.
b.               Establish
and periodically review and recommend to the Board Director retirement
policies.
D-2 


7.   Meetings,
Reports, Charter Review, Performance Evaluation and Outside Advisors
a.                Hold
regular meetings of the Committee, reporting significant matters arising from
such meetings to the Board. A majority of the members shall constitute a
quorum. A majority of the members present shall decide any matter brought
before the Committee.
b.               Review
and reassess the adequacy of this Charter at least annually and submit any
changes to the Board for approval.
c.                Conduct
an annual performance evaluation of the Committee.
d.               The
Committee shall have the authority to retain search firms to assist in
identifying director candidates, and to retain outside counsel and any other
advisors as the Committee may deem appropriate in its sole discretion. The
Committee shall have sole authority to approve related fees and retention
terms.
D-3




 
APPENDIX
E
3M Company Board of
Directors
Public Issues Committee Charter
(As Affirmed February 14, 2005)
A.               Purpose: The Public
Issues Committee (the “Committee”)
of the Board of Directors of 3M Company reviews public policy issues and trends
affecting the Company, reviews and advises with respect to the Company’s
environmental, health and safety programs and compliance, human resources, the
corporate contribution program and the 3M Foundation, and reviews and approves
the Company’s response to shareholder proposals relating to public policy
issues.
B.              Membership:
The Committee’s membership is determined by the Board and consists of at least
three directors.
C.              Roles and
Responsibilities:
The Committee:
1.               Reviews public
policy issues and trends affecting the Company.
2.               Offers advice,
insights and makes recommendations regarding policies, programs, actions and
procedures which will assist the Company to respond appropriately to its social
responsibilities and the public interest in its business affairs, including
activities such as those related to the environment, human resources, labor,
and community relations.
3.               Reviews and advises
with respect to the Company’s environmental, health and safety programs and
compliance; human resource programs and compliance; the corporate contribution
program; and the 3M Foundation.
4.               Review shareholder
proposals relating to public policy issues and recommend to the Board the
Company’s response to such proposals.
D.              Meetings,
Reports, Charter Review, Performance Evaluation and Outside Advisors:
The Committee shall:
1.               Hold regular
meetings of the Committee, reporting significant matters arising from such
meetings to the Board. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. A
majority of the members present shall decide any matter brought before the
Committee.
2.               Review and reassess
the adequacy of this Charter at least annually and submit any changes to the
Board for approval.
3.               Conduct an annual
performance evaluation of the Committee.
4.               Have
the authority to retain such outside counsel and any other advisors as the
Committee may deem appropriate in its sole discretion. The Committee shall have
sole authority to approve related fees and retention terms.
E-1




APPENDIX F
3M 2005 MANAGEMENT STOCK OWNERSHIP PROGRAM
SECTION 1 
PURPOSE
The purpose of this plan is to
help the Company attract and retain outstanding employees, and to promote the
growth and success of the Company’s business by aligning the financial
interests of these employees with the other stockholders of the Company. It has
been the policy of the Company to encourage employee participation as
stockholders and the Company believes that employee stock ownership has been an
important factor contributing to the Company’s growth and progress.
SECTION 2 
DEFINITIONS
(a)            “Award” shall mean an Incentive Stock Option, Nonqualified Stock
Option, Progressive Stock Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock,
Restricted Stock Unit or other Stock Award granted to a Participant pursuant to
this 2005 Program, subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions of this
2005 Program and to such other terms, conditions and restrictions as may be
established by the Committee.
(b)           “Board of
Directors” shall mean the Board of Directors of 3M Company.
(c)            “Code” shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as it may be amended from time to time. For purposes of this 2005
Program, references to sections of the Code shall be deemed to include references
to any applicable regulations thereunder and any successor or similar provisions.
(d)           “Committee” shall
mean the Compensation Committee established by the Board of Directors acting
without the participation of any member who may have received a grant or award
under the 2005 Program or any other similar plan or program of the Company
(except those limited to participation by directors) during the previous one
year period, or such other committee of disinterested administrators
established by the Board of Directors to comply with Rule 16b-3
promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, as amended from time to
time.
(e)            “Common
Stock” shall mean the common stock, with a par value of $0.01 per
share, of 3M Company.
(f)                “Company” shall mean 3M Company and such subsidiaries or
affiliates as may be designated by the Board of Directors from time to time.
(g)           “Conditions”
shall mean the condition that the Restricted Period stipulated by
the Committee at the time of grants of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock
Units shall have expired or terminated and that any other conditions prescribed
by the Committee regarding a Participant’s continued employment by the Company
or the Company’s performance during the Restricted Period shall have been
satisfied, or any other conditions stipulated by the Committee with respect to
Stock Awards.
(h)            “Disqualifying
Termination” shall mean a termination of a Participant’s employment
with the Company (i) due to a material violation of any Company policy,
including, without limitation, any policy contained in the Company’s Business
Conduct Manual, or (ii) due to embezzlement from or theft of property
belonging to the Company.
(i)                “Dividend Equivalents” shall mean that sum of cash or Common
Stock of equivalent value equal to the amount of cash or stock dividends paid
upon Common Stock subject to any Awards under the 2005 Program, prior to such
time as the Participant otherwise becomes entitled thereto as a holder of
record.
F-1 


(j)                “Fair Market Value” shall mean the average of the high and
low prices for a share of Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock
Exchange Composite Transactions, rounded upwards to the nearest $0.05.
(k)            “Grant Date” shall mean the
effective date of an Award granted to a Participant under the 2005 Program.
(l)                “Incentive Stock Option” shall mean an Option granted to a
Participant under the 2005 Program which satisfies the requirements of section
422 of the Code and is so designated in the written or electronic documents
evidencing such Option.
(m)        “MSOP
Administrator” shall mean the entity retained by the Company to
administer the 2005 Program.
(n)            “Nonqualified
Stock Option” shall mean an Option granted to a Participant under
the 2005 Program which is not an Incentive Stock Option.
(o)           “Option”
shall mean a Participant’s right to purchase the number of shares of Common
Stock approved by the Company, subject to the terms and conditions of the 2005
Program, and the term shall include both Incentive Stock Options and
Nonqualified Options.
(p)           “Participant”
shall mean any employee of the Company who is designated as a
Participant by the Committee.
(q)           “2002
Program” shall mean the Company’s 2002 Management Stock Ownership
Program.
(r)               “2005 Program” shall mean the Company’s 2005 Management
Stock Ownership Program.
(s)             “Progressive Stock Option” shall
mean an Option granted to a Participant under the 2005 Program upon the
exercise of a Nonqualified Stock Option granted under the 2002 Program or its
predecessors where such Participant makes payment for all or part of the
purchase price and withholding taxes in shares of Common Stock.
(t)               “Restricted Period” shall mean that period of time
determined by the Committee during which a Participant shall not be permitted
to sell or transfer shares of Restricted Stock granted under the 2005 Program,
or prior to the time when a Participant’s interest in Restricted Stock Units
granted under this 2005 Program shall have vested.
(u)            “Restricted
Stock” shall mean that Common Stock granted to a Participant subject
to the Conditions established by the Committee.
(v)             “Restricted
Stock Unit” shall mean a stock unit granted to a Participant with a
value equal to the value of a share of Common Stock, subject to the Conditions
established by the Committee.
(w)          “Retires” or
“Retirement” shall mean the termination of a Participant’s
employment with the Company after meeting the requirements for retirement under
any retirement plan of the Company (including, in the United States, the 3M
Employee Retirement Income Plan).
(x)             “Stock
Appreciation Right” shall mean a Participant’s right to receive an
amount of cash or shares of Common Stock equal to the excess of the Fair Market
Value of a specified number of shares of Common Stock on the date the right is
exercised over the Fair Market Value of such number of shares of Common Stock
on the Grant Date.
(y)            “Stock Award” shall mean any award of Common Stock under the
Program and may include Restricted Stock awards or other awards of Common Stock
as determined appropriate by the Committee.
F-2 


SECTION 3 SHARES AVAILABLE FOR AWARDS
The number of shares of Common
Stock that may be issued or delivered as a result of Options, Restricted Stock,
Restricted Stock Units or other Stock Awards granted during the term of the
2005 Program, or made subject to Stock Appreciation Rights granted during the
term of the 2005 Program, is 36,750,000. Of this total, no more than 36,750,000
shares may be granted as Incentive Stock Options. Any shares issued or
delivered as a result of Awards granted during the term of this 2005 Program
other than Options or Stock Appreciation Rights settled exclusively in Common
Stock shall be counted against the 36,750,000 share limit described above as
2.45 shares for every one share issued in connection with such Award or by
which the Award is valued by reference. Any shares of Common Stock made subject
to Stock Appreciation Rights granted during the term of this 2005 Program and
settled exclusively in Common Stock shall be counted in full against the
36,750,000 share limit regardless of the number of shares of Common Stock
actually issued upon the exercise of such Stock Appreciation Rights. The
necessary shares shall be made available at the discretion of the Board of
Directors from authorized but unissued shares, treasury shares, or shares
reacquired by the Company under corporate repurchase programs. The payment of
stock dividends and dividend equivalents settled in Common Stock in conjunction with outstanding Awards shall not be counted
against the shares available for issuance.
SECTION 4 
ADMINISTRATION
The 2005 Program shall be
administered by the Committee, which shall have full power and authority to
select the Participants, interpret the Program, continue, accelerate or suspend
the exercisability or vesting of an Award, and adopt such rules and
procedures for operating the Program as it may deem necessary or appropriate. Its
power and authority shall include, but not be limited to, making any amendments
to or modifications of the 2005 Program which may be required or necessary to
make such Program comply with the provisions of any laws or regulations of any
country or unit thereof in which the Company operates. To do so, the Committee
may establish different terms and conditions for Awards made to Participants
who live in or are subject to taxation in one or more countries other than the
United States in order to accommodate the tax or other relevant laws of such
countries. The Committee may adopt one or more supplements or sub-plans under
the Program to implement these different terms and conditions.
SECTION 5 
DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY
To the extent permitted by
Delaware law, the Committee may delegate to officers of the Company any or all
of its duties, power and authority under the 2005 Program subject to such
conditions or limitations as the Committee may establish; provided, however,
that no officer shall have or obtain the authority to grant Awards to (i) himself
or herself, or (ii) any person subject to section 16 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.
SECTION 6 
TERMS OF AWARDS
The Committee shall
determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to each Participant, which
shall be evidenced by such written or electronic documents as the Committee
shall authorize. No Participant shall be granted Awards under the 2005 Program
with respect to more than 3,000,000 shares of Common Stock. The following types
of Awards may be granted under this 2005 Program:
(a)            Incentive Stock
Options — Incentive Stock Options granted hereunder shall have a purchase price
equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of
Common Stock on the Grant Date. Incentive Stock Options granted hereunder shall
become exercisable at such time as shall be established by the Committee and
reflected in the documents evidencing such Options, and unless sooner
terminated shall expire on the tenth anniversary of the Grant Date.
F-3 


(b)           Nonqualified Stock
Options — Nonqualified Stock Options granted hereunder shall have a purchase
price equal to no less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value
of a share of Common Stock on the Grant Date. Nonqualified Stock Options
granted hereunder shall become exercisable and shall expire at such time or
times as shall be established by the Committee and reflected in the documents
evidencing such Options; provided, however, that no Nonqualified Stock Option
shall expire later than ten years after the Grant Date (except that the
Committee may extend the exercise period for Nonqualified Stock Options granted
to Participants in any country or countries for an additional period of up to
one year if and to the extent necessary to prevent adverse tax consequences to
such Participants under the laws of such country).
(c)            Progressive Stock Options — Whenever a Participant exercises a Nonqualified Stock Option granted
under the 2002 Program or its predecessors and makes payment of all or part of
the purchase price and withholding taxes, if any, in Common Stock, the
Committee may in its discretion grant such Participant a Progressive Stock
Option. The number of shares subject to such Progressive Stock Option shall be
equal to the number of shares of Common Stock utilized by the Participant to
effect payment of the purchase price and withholding taxes, if any, for such
Nonqualified Stock Option. Each Progressive Stock Option granted hereunder
shall have a purchase price equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair
Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of exercise of the
Nonqualified Stock Option, which shall be the Grant Date of such Progressive
Stock Option. Each Progressive Stock Option granted hereunder shall be
exercisable six months after the Grant Date, and shall expire at the same time
the Nonqualified Option exercised by the Participant would have expired.
(d)           Stock Appreciation
Rights — The term of a Stock Appreciation Right shall be fixed by the Committee
and set forth in the documents evidencing such right, but no Stock Appreciation
Right shall be exercisable more than ten years after the Grant Date. Each Stock
Appreciation Right shall become exercisable at the time or times determined by
the Committee and set forth in the documents evidencing such right. Each Stock
Appreciation Right granted hereunder shall have a grant price equal to one
hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on
the Grant Date.
(e)            Restricted Stock — At
the time a grant of Restricted Stock is made, the Committee, in its sole
discretion, shall establish a Restricted Period and such additional Conditions as
may be deemed appropriate for the incremental lapse or complete lapse of
restrictions with respect to all or any portion of the shares of Common Stock
represented by the Restricted Stock. The Committee may also, in its sole
discretion, shorten or terminate the Restricted Period or waive any Conditions
with respect to all or any portion of the shares of Common Stock represented by
the Restricted Stock. The Participant shall generally have the rights and
privileges of a stockholder as to such Restricted Stock, including the right to
vote such Restricted Stock, except that the following restrictions shall apply:
(i) the Participant shall not be entitled to delivery of the shares of
such Restricted Stock until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period
and the satisfaction of any other Conditions prescribed by the Committee, if
any; (ii) none of the Restricted Stock may be sold, transferred, assigned,
pledged, or otherwise encumbered or disposed of during the Restricted Period
and until the satisfaction of other Conditions prescribed by the Committee, if
any; and (iii) all of the Restricted Stock shall be forfeited and all
rights of the Participant shall terminate without further obligation on the
part of the Company unless the Participant shall have remained a regular
full-time employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates
until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period and the
satisfaction of the other Conditions prescribed by the Committee, if any. During
the Restricted Period, at the sole discretion of the Committee, Dividend
Equivalents may be either currently paid or withheld by the Company for the
Participant’s account, and interest may be paid on the amount of cash dividends
withheld at a 
F-4 


rate and under such terms as
determined by the Committee. Cash or stock dividends so withheld by the
Committee shall not be subject to forfeiture. Upon the forfeiture of any
Restricted Stock, such shares of Common Stock represented by the Restricted
Stock shall be transferred to the Company without further action by the
Participant.
(f)                Restricted Stock
Units — At the time a grant of Restricted Stock Units is made, the Committee,
in its sole discretion, shall establish a Restricted Period and such additional
Conditions as may be deemed appropriate for the incremental lapse or complete
lapse of restrictions with respect to all or any portion of such Restricted
Stock Units. The Committee may also, in its sole discretion, shorten or
terminate the Restricted Period or waive any Conditions with respect to all or
any portion of the Restricted Stock Units. During the Restricted Period, the
Participant will not have the rights and privileges of a stockholder as to such
Restricted Stock Units; provided, however, that at the sole discretion of the
Committee, Dividend Equivalents may be either currently paid in cash or shares
or withheld by the Company for the Participant’s account and reinvested in
additional Restricted Stock Units. Each grant of Restricted Stock Units shall
be subject to the following restrictions: (i) the Participant shall not be
entitled to delivery of the shares of Common Stock corresponding to such
Restricted Stock Units until the expiration or termination of the Restricted
Period and the satisfaction of any other Conditions prescribed by the
Committee, if any; (ii) none of the Restricted Stock Units may be sold,
transferred, assigned, pledged, or otherwise encumbered or disposed of during
the Restricted Period and until the satisfaction of other Conditions prescribed
by the Committee, if any; and (iii) all of the Restricted Stock Units
shall be forfeited and all rights of the Participant shall terminate without
further obligation on the part of the Company unless the Participant shall have
remained a regular full-time employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries
or affiliates until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period and
the satisfaction of the other Conditions prescribed by the Committee, if any.
(g)           Other
Stock Awards — The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant Stock Awards
other than Restricted Stock grants or Restricted Stock Units, and such Stock
Awards may be granted singly, in combination or in tandem with, in replacement
of, or as alternatives to grants or rights under this Program or any other
employee benefit or compensation plan of the Company, including the plan of any
acquired entity. If the Committee shall stipulate Conditions with respect to
such Stock Awards, the Conditions will be set forth in documents evidencing the
grant. If Conditions with respect to such Stock Awards shall require the
surrender or forfeiture of other grants or rights under this Program or any
other employee benefit or compensation plan of the Company, then the
Participant shall not have any rights under such Stock Awards until the grants
or rights exchanged have been fully and effectively surrendered or forfeited.
SECTION 7 
SETTLEMENT OF AWARDS
(a)            Payment of Awards may
be in the form of cash, Common Stock or combinations thereof as the Committee
shall determine, and with such other restrictions as it may impose. The
Committee may also require or permit Participants to elect to defer the
issuance of shares or the settlement of Awards in cash under such rules and
procedures as it may establish under the 2005 Program. It may also provide that
deferred settlements include the payment or crediting of interest on the
deferral amounts denominated in cash or the payment or crediting of Dividend
Equivalents on deferred settlements denominated in shares.
(b)           No shares of Common
Stock shall be issued to any Participant upon the exercise of an Option until
full payment of the purchase price has been made to the Company and the
Participant has remitted to the Company the required federal and state
withholding taxes, if any. A Participant shall obtain no rights as a
stockholder until certificates for such stock are issued to the Participant or
delivered to the MSOP Administrator for credit to the account of the
Participant. Payment of the purchase price or applicable withholding taxes, if
any, may be made in whole, or in part, in shares 
F-5 


of Common Stock,
pursuant to such terms and conditions as may be established from time to time
by the Committee. If payment is made in shares of Common Stock, such stock
shall be valued at one hundred percent (100%) of their Fair Market Value on the
day the Participant exercised his or her Option or, as regards a withholding
tax, such other date when the tax withholding obligation becomes due. A
Participant need not surrender shares of Common Stock as payment; and the
Company may, upon the giving of satisfactory evidence of ownership of said
Common Stock by Participant, deliver the appropriate number of additional
shares of Common Stock reduced by the number of shares required to pay the purchase
price and any applicable withholding taxes. Such form of evidence shall be
determined by the Committee.
SECTION 8 
DELIVERY OF STOCK CERTIFICATES
(a)            Within sixty (60) days
after completion of the exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, or
the complete satisfaction of Conditions applicable to a Stock Award, the
Company will have delivered to the Participant or to the MSOP Administrator for
credit to the account of the Participant certificates representing all shares
of Common Stock purchased or received thereunder. The Company shall not,
however, be required to issue or deliver any certificates for its Common Stock
prior to the admission of such stock to listing on any stock exchange on which
stock may at that time be listed or required to be listed, or prior to
registration under the Securities Act of 1933. The Participant shall have no
interest in Common Stock until certificates for such stock are issued or
transferred to the Participant or to the MSOP Administrator for credit to the
account of the Participant and the Participant becomes the holder of record.
(b)           Upon the expiration or
termination of the Restricted Period and the satisfaction of other Conditions
prescribed by the Committee, if any, the restrictions applicable to a grant of
Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units shall lapse and a stock certificate
for the number of shares of Common Stock represented by the Restricted Stock or
Restricted Stock Units shall be delivered to the Participant or the Participant’s
beneficiary, representative, or estate, as the case may be, free of all
restrictions, except any that may be imposed by law. Unless otherwise
instructed by a Participant by an irrevocable, written instruction received by
the Company at least six months prior to the date that applicable restrictions
lapse, the Company shall automatically withhold as payment the number of shares
of Common Stock, determined by the Fair Market Value at the date of the lapse,
required to pay withholding taxes, if any.
(c)            In
no event will the Company be required to deliver any fractional share of Common
Stock in connection with any Award. In the event that a Participant shall be
entitled to receive a fraction of a share of Common Stock in connection with an
Award granted under this 2005 Program, the Company shall pay in cash, in lieu
thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional share.
SECTION 9 
TAX WITHHOLDING
Prior to the payment or
settlement of any Award, the Participant must pay, or make arrangements
satisfactory to the Company for the payment of, any and all tax withholding
that in the opinion of the Company is required by law. The Company shall have
the right to deduct applicable taxes from any Award payment, to withhold from
the shares of Common Stock being issued or delivered in connection with an
Award an appropriate number of shares for the payment of taxes required by law,
or to take such other action as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company
to satisfy all obligations for the withholding of such taxes.
SECTION 10 
TRANSFERABILITY
Except as permitted in this Section 10,
no Award granted under this 2005 Program may be assigned, transferred (other
than a transfer by will or the laws of descent and distribution as provided 
F-6 


in Section 11),
pledged, or hypothecated (whether by operation of law or otherwise). Awards
granted under this 2005 Program shall not be subject to execution, attachment,
or similar process. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, permit
individual Participants to transfer the ownership of all or any of their Nonqualified
Options granted under this 2005 Program to (i) the spouse, children or
grandchildren of such Participant (“Immediate Family Members”), (ii) a
trust or trusts for the exclusive benefit of such Immediate Family Members, or (iii) a
partnership in which such Immediate Family Members are the only partners,
provided that (x) there may be no consideration for any such transfer, and
(y) subsequent transfers of transferred Nonqualified Options shall be
prohibited except those in accordance with Section 11 (by will or the laws
of descent and distribution). The Committee may, in its sole discretion, create
further conditions and requirements for the transfer of Nonqualified Options. Following
transfer, any such Nonqualified Options shall continue to be subject to the
same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer,
provided that for purposes of Sections 7, 8 and 14 hereof the term “Participant”
shall be deemed to refer to the transferee. The events causing termination of
Awards in accordance with Section 11 hereof shall continue to be applied
with respect to the original Participant, following which the Nonqualified
Options shall be exercisable by the transferee only to the extent, and for the
periods specified in Section 11.
SECTION 11 
TERMINATION OF AWARDS
(a)            If a Participant’s
employment with the Company is terminated for any reason other than (i) a
Disqualifying Termination, (ii) Retirement, (iii) a physical or
mental disability as recognized under a benefit plan maintained by the Company,
or (iv) death, and prior to the date of termination the Participant has
not fully exercised an Option or Stock Appreciation Right granted under this
2005 Program, such Participant may exercise the Option or Stock Appreciation
Right within ninety (90) days following the date of termination (but not beyond
the expiration date of such Option or Right) for the number of shares which the
Participant could have purchased or received a payment on the date of
termination. At the conclusion of such ninety-day period (with respect to the
Participant’s Options and Stock Appreciation Rights, and at the time of
termination with respect to any other Awards), participation hereunder shall
cease and all of the Participant’s Awards granted under this 2005 Program shall
be automatically forfeited unless the documents evidencing such Options or
Stock Appreciation Rights provide otherwise.
(b)           If a Participant
Retires or changes employment status as a result of a physical or mental
disability as recognized under a benefit plan maintained by the Company,
without having fully exercised an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, the
Participant shall be entitled, within the remaining term of the Option or Stock
Appreciation Right (but not beyond the expiration date of such Option or
Right), to exercise such Option or Stock Appreciation Right. If a Participant
who has thus Retired dies, without having fully exercised an Option or Stock
Appreciation Right, the Option or Stock Appreciation Right (including any
portion thereof not already exercisable at the time of the Participant’s death)
may be exercised within two years after the date of his or her death (but not
beyond the expiration date of such Option or Right) by the Participant’s estate
or by a person who acquired the right to exercise such Option or Stock
Appreciation Right by bequest or inheritance or by reason of the death of the
Participant.
(c)            If a Participant,
prior to Retirement, dies without having fully exercised an Option or Stock
Appreciation Right, the Option or Stock Appreciation Right (including any
portion thereof not already exercisable at the time of the Participant’s death)
may be exercised within two years following his or her death (but not beyond
the expiration date of such Option or Right) by the Participant’s estate or by
a person who acquired the right to exercise such Option or Stock Appreciation
Right by bequest or inheritance or by reason of the death of the Participant.
(d)           Notwithstanding
paragraph (a) of this section, if a Participant’s employment with the
Company is terminated before he or she has fully exercised an Option or Stock
Appreciation Right under 
F-7 


circumstances which the
Committee believes to warrant special consideration and the Committee has
determined that the Participant’s rights should not be forfeited at the time or
times specified in paragraph (a), the Option or Stock Appreciation Right
(including any portion thereof not already exercisable at the time of
termination) may be exercised within two years following his or her termination
of employment (but not beyond the expiration date of such Option or Right).
(e)            If a Participant dies,
either prior to or following Retirement, or becomes totally disabled because of
a physical or mental disability, and has not yet received the stock certificate
for the shares of Common Stock represented by a grant of Restricted Stock or
other Stock Award, then all restrictions imposed during the Restricted Period
and any other Conditions prescribed by the Committee, if any, shall
automatically lapse and a stock certificate shall be delivered to the
Participant or the Participant’s beneficiary, representative, or estate, as the
case may be.
(f)                If a Participant’s
employment with the Company is terminated due to a Disqualifying Termination,
participation hereunder shall cease and all of the Participant’s Awards granted
under this 2005 Program shall be automatically forfeited.
(g)           If
the Committee or the officers to whom it delegates the necessary authority
receive or have reason to believe that the Company has received credible
evidence that a Participant may have engaged in activity described in the term “Disqualifying
Termination” in Section 2(h) of this 2005 Program, the Committee or
such officers may suspend the exercise, delivery or settlement of all or any
portion of such Participant’s outstanding Awards granted under this 2005
Program pending an investigation of the matter.
SECTION 12 
ADJUSTMENTS
In the event of any change in
the outstanding Common Stock of the Company by reason of a stock split, stock
dividend, combination or reclassification of shares, recapitalization, merger
or similar event, the Committee shall adjust proportionately: (a) the
number of shares of Common Stock (i) available for issuance or delivery
under the 2005 Program in accordance with Section 3, (ii) for which
Awards may be granted to a single Participant in accordance with Section 6,
and (iii) subject to outstanding Awards granted under the 2005 Program; (b) the
purchase prices of outstanding Awards; and (c) the appropriate Fair Market
Value and other price determinations for such Awards. In the event of any other
change affecting the Common Stock or any distribution (other than normal cash
dividends) to holders of Common Stock, such adjustments in the number or kind
of shares and the purchase prices, Fair Market Value and other price
determinations of the affected Awards as the Committee shall, in its sole
discretion, determine are equitable, shall be made and shall be effective and
binding for all purposes of such outstanding Awards. In the event of a
corporate merger, consolidation, acquisition of assets or stock, separation,
reorganization or liquidation, the Committee shall be authorized to cause the
Company to issue or assume stock options, whether or not in a transaction to
which section 424(a) of the Code applies, by means of substitution of new
stock options for previously issued stock options or an assumption of
previously issued stock options. In such event, the aggregate number of shares
of Common Stock available for issuance or delivery under the 2005 Program in
accordance with Section 3 will be increased to reflect such substitution
or assumption, and such shares substituted or assumed shall not be counted
against the individual Participant maximum set forth in Section 6.
SECTION 13 
TERM, AMENDMENT, AND
TERMINATION OF THE 2005 PROGRAM
The 2005 Program shall become
effective on the date it is approved by the requisite vote of the stockholders
of 3M Company, and shall expire (unless it is terminated before then) on the
third anniversary of such effective date. Such expiration shall not adversely
affect Awards granted under the 
F-8 


2005 Program
prior to such expiration date. The Board of Directors may at any time amend or
terminate the 2005 Program, except that no amendment or termination shall
adversely affect Awards granted under the 2005 Program prior to the effective
date of such amendment or termination; provided, however, that no amendment
shall be made without the prior approval of the holders of a majority of the issued
and outstanding shares of Common Stock represented and entitled to vote on such
amendment which would (i) increase the aggregate number of shares of
Common Stock available for issuance or delivery under the 2005 Program in
accordance with Section 3 (except for adjustments made in accordance with Section 12),
(ii) permit the granting of Awards with purchase prices lower than those
specified in Section 6, or (iii) be a material amendment for which
stockholder approval is required by applicable law, regulation or stock
exchange rule.
SECTION 14 
CHANGE IN CONTROL
(a)            For purposes of this Section 14,
the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated below, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise:
                                    (i)  “Person” shall have the meaning associated
with that term as it is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Act.
                                 (ii)  “Affiliates and Associates” shall have the
meanings assigned to such terms in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12
of the Act.
                              (iii)  “Act” means the Securities Exchange Act of
1934.
                              (iv)  “Continuing Directors” shall have the meaning
assigned to such term in Article Thirteenth of the Certificate of
Incorporation of 3M Company.
(b)           Notwithstanding any
other provision of this 2005 Program to the contrary, all outstanding Options
and Stock Appreciation Rights shall (i) become immediately exercisable in
full for the remainder of their respective terms upon the occurrence of a
Change in Control of the Company, and (ii) remain exercisable in full for
a minimum period of six months following the Change in Control;
provided, however, that in no event shall any Option or Stock Appreciation
Right be exercisable beyond the original expiration date.
(c)            Similarly, all
restrictions regarding the Restricted Period or the satisfaction of other
Conditions prescribed by the Committee, if any, with respect to grants of
Restricted Stock or other Stock Awards, shall automatically lapse, expire, and
terminate and the Participant shall be immediately entitled to receive a stock
certificate for the number of shares of Common Stock represented by the
Restricted Stock or Stock Awards upon the occurrence of a Change in Control.
(d)           For purposes of this Section 14,
a Change in Control of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred if:
                                    (i)  any Person (together with its Affiliates and
Associates), other than a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under
an employee benefit plan of the Company, is or becomes the “beneficial owner”
(as that term is defined in Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Act),
directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing twenty
percent (20%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company’s then
outstanding securities, unless a majority of the Continuing Directors of the
Board of Directors prior to that time have determined in their sole discretion
that, for purposes of this 2005 Program, a Change in Control of the Company has
not occurred; or
                                 (ii)  the Continuing Directors of the Board of
Directors shall at any time fail to constitute a majority of the members of
such Board of Directors.
F-9 


(e)            In the event that the
provisions of this Section 14 result in “payments” that are finally
determined to be subject to the excise tax imposed by section 4999 of the Code,
the Company shall pay to each Participant an additional amount sufficient to
fully satisfy such excise tax and any additional federal, state, and local
income taxes payable on the additional amount.
(f)                The
Company shall pay to each Participant the amount of all reasonable legal and
accounting fees and expenses incurred by such Participant in seeking to obtain
or enforce his or her rights under this Section 14, or in connection with
any income tax audit or proceeding to the extent attributable to the
application of section 4999 of the Code to the payments made pursuant to this Section 14,
unless a lawsuit commenced by the Participant for such purposes is dismissed by
the court as being frivolous or otherwise improper under applicable court rules.
The Company shall also pay to each Participant the amount of all reasonable tax
and financial planning fees and expenses incurred by such Participant in
connection with such Participant’s receipt of payments pursuant to this Section 14.
SECTION 15 
MISCELLANEOUS
(a)            Unless otherwise
specifically determined by the Committee, settlements of Awards received by
Participants under the 2005 Program shall not be deemed a part of any
Participant’s compensation for purposes of determining such Participant’s
payments or benefits under any Company benefit plan, severance program, or
severance pay law of any country. Nothing in this 2005 Program shall prevent
the Company from adopting other or additional compensation programs, plans, or
arrangements as it deems appropriate or necessary.
(b)           The 2005 Program shall
be unfunded. The Company does not intend to create any trust or separate fund
in connection with the 2005 Program. The Company shall not have any obligation
to set aside funds or segregate assets to ensure the payment of any Award. The
2005 Program shall not establish any fiduciary relationship between the Company
and any Participant or other person. To the extent any person holds any rights
by virtue of an Award under the 2005 Program, such right (unless otherwise
determined by the Committee) shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured
general creditor of the Company.
(c)            No person shall have
any claim or right to be granted an Award under the 2005 Program, and the
Participants shall have no rights against the Company except as may otherwise
be specifically provided herein. Nothing in this 2005 Program shall be deemed
to give any Participant the right to be retained in the employ of the Company,
or to interfere with the right of the Company to discipline or discharge such
Participant at any time for any reason whatsoever.
(d)           The provisions of this
2005 Program and the documents evidencing Awards granted under this 2005
Program shall be construed and interpreted according to the laws of the State
of Minnesota.
(e)            In case any provision
of this 2005 Program shall be ruled or declared invalid for any reason, said
illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions, and the
remainder of the 2005 Program shall be construed and enforced as if such
illegal or invalid provision had never been included herein.
F-10










Attendance Card


 


 


Attendance Card


 


 


 




 



Annual Meeting
  of Stockholders


 


 



Annual
  Meeting
  of Stockholders


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


May 10,
  2005
  RiverCentre
  175 West Kellogg Blvd.
  St. Paul, Minnesota


 


 


May 10, 2005
  RiverCentre
  175 West Kellogg Blvd.
  St. Paul, Minnesota


 


 


 




 


This is your ticket to the 2005 Annual Meeting.
  Please show it upon arrival. Annual Meeting activities begin at
  8:30 a.m. with product demonstrations and displays. The meeting starts
  at 10:00 a.m. After the meeting, lunch will be served and the 3M store
  will open.
The meeting will be held in
  the Roy Wilkins Auditorium. Hosts and hostesses will show you the way after
  you enter the RiverCentre.
Since
  parking space is limited, you are urged to consider carpooling or public
  transportation.


 


 


This is your ticket to the 2005 Annual Meeting.
  Please show it upon arrival. Annual Meeting activities begin at
  8:30 a.m. with product demonstrations and displays. The meeting starts
  at 10:00 a.m. After the meeting, lunch will be served and the 3M store
  will open.
The
  meeting will be held in the Roy Wilkins Auditorium. Hosts and hostesses will
  show you the way after you enter the RiverCentre.
Since
  parking space is limited, you are urged to consider carpooling or public
  transportation.


 


  


Recycled
  Paper
  40% Pre-consumer paper
  10% Post-consumer paper



 




 
3M
Company
ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS
Tuesday, May 10, 2005
3M
Center
St. Paul, Minnesota 55144
Receive Future Proxy Materials Electronically
 
Help us make a difference by eliminating
paper proxy mailings to your home or business. With your consent, we will send
all future proxy voting materials to you by e-mail, along with a link to 3M’s proxy voting site. To register for electronic delivery of
future proxy materials, go to www.econsent.com/mmm and follow the
prompts.
 
 
 
 
 



 


3M Company


 







3M Center


 




 


St. Paul, Minnesota 55144 


proxy



 
The Board of Directors solicits
this proxy for use at the Annual Meeting on Tuesday, May 10, 2005.
The stockholder(s) whose
signature(s) appear(s) on the reverse side of this proxy card hereby appoint(s)
W. James McNerney, Jr., Edward A. Brennan, and Rozanne L. Ridgway or any of
them, each with full power of substitution, as proxies, to vote all shares of
common stock in 3M Company which the stockholder(s) would be entitled to vote
on all matters which may properly come before the 2005 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders and any adjournments thereof. THE PROXIES SHALL VOTE SUBJECT TO
THE DIRECTION INDICATED ON THE REVERSE SIDE OF THIS CARD. THE PROXIES ARE
AUTHORIZED TO VOTE IN THEIR DISCRETION UPON OTHER BUSINESS AS MAY PROPERLY COME
BEFORE THE MEETING AND ANY ADJOURNMENTS OR POSTPONEMENTS THEREOF. THE PROXIES
WILL VOTE AS THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS WHERE A CHOICE IS NOT SPECIFIED.
FOR PARTICIPANTS IN 3M’S
VOLUNTARY INVESTMENT PLAN AND EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN (VIP), AND THE 3M
SAVINGS PLAN:
In accordance with the terms
of the VIP and Savings Plan, shares allocated to my respective accounts in
these plans on the record date will be voted by the trustee, State Street Bank
and Trust Company, in accordance with the instructions indicated on the reverse
side of this card, and in accordance with the judgment of the trustee upon
other business as may properly come before the meeting and any adjournments or
postponements thereof. In addition, participants in the VIP may instruct State
Street (as VIP trustee) how to vote a proportionate number of both the 3M
shares held by the VIP that have not been allocated to accounts of participants
and the allocated shares for which no instructions are received. If no
instructions are provided or if this card is not received on or before May 5,
2005, shares held in my account for the Savings Plan will be voted by the
trustee as directed by any one of the named proxies designated above. If no
instructions are provided or if this card is not received on or before May 5,
2005, shares held in my account for the VIP will be voted by the trustee in the
same proportion that the other participants in the VIP direct the trustee to
vote shares in their VIP accounts.
 
(Continued, and must be signed and dated on the other side)







 



VOTING INSTRUCTIONS:


 




THERE ARE THREE WAYS TO VOTE
  YOUR PROXY


COMPANY #
 
 



VOTE BY
INTERNET — www.eproxy.com/mmm/ — Quick *** Easy *** Immediate
•    Use
the Internet to vote your proxy 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, until 12:00 p.m.
(CT) on May 9, 2005.
•    Please
have your proxy card and the last four digits of your Social Security Number or
Tax Identification Number available. Follow the simple instructions to obtain
your records and create an electronic ballot.
VOTE BY
TELEPHONE — 1-800-560-1965 — Quick *** Easy *** Immediate
•    Use
any touch-tone telephone to vote your proxy 24 hours a day, 7 days a week,
until 12:00 p.m. (CT) on May 9, 2005.
•    Please
have your proxy card and the last four digits of your Social Security Number or
Tax Identification Number available. Follow the simple instructions the voice
provides you.
VOTE BY
MAIL
Mark, sign, and date your
proxy card and return it in the postage-paid envelope provided so that it is
received by May 9, 2005 (by May 5, 2005 for participants in 3M’s Voluntary
Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan and the 3M Savings Plan).
Your Internet or telephone vote authorizes the
named proxies to vote your shares in the same manner as if you marked, signed,
and returned your proxy card. The deadline for Internet or telephone voting is
12:00 p.m. (Central Time) on May 9, 2005 (by May 5, 2005, for
participants in 3M’s Voluntary Investment Plan and Employee Stock Ownership
Plan and the 3M Savings Plan).
If you vote your shares on the Internet
or by telephone, you do not need to mail back the proxy card. YOUR VOTE IS
IMPORTANT. THANK YOU FOR VOTING.



 The Board of Directors Recommends a Vote
  “FOR” all Nominees:




 




 1.


Election of directors —
Nominees to 2008 Class:


 


01 Vance D. Coffman
  02 Rozanne L. Ridgway


 


03 Louis W. Sullivan


o


Vote FOR all nominees
  (except as noted below)


o


Vote WITHHELD from all nominees




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 To withhold
  authority to vote for any nominee, write the number(s) of the nominee(s) in the box provided
  to the right.


 


 




 


 




— Please fold here —




 




 The Board
  of Directors Recommends a Vote “FOR” Items 2 and 3:


 


 




 


 


 




 2.


Ratification of the appointment of
  PricewaterhouseCoopers as 3M’s Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


 


o 
  For           o  Against


 


o  Abstain




 


 


 


 


 


 




 3.


Approval of the 2005 Management Stock Ownership
  Program


 


o 
  For           o  Against


 


o  Abstain




 


 


 


 


 


 




 The Board
  of Directors Recommends a Vote “AGAINST” Items 4 and 5:


 


 




 


 


 




 4.


Stockholder proposal relating to animal testing


 


o 
  For           o  Against


 


o  Abstain




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 5.


Stockholder proposal relating to operations in China


 


o 
  For           o  Against


 


o  Abstain




 


 


 


 


 


 




 In their
  discretion, to vote upon other matters properly coming before the meeting.


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 




 THIS
  PROXY, WHEN PROPERLY EXECUTED, WILL BE VOTED AS DIRECTED. IF NO DIRECTION IS
  GIVEN, IT WILL BE VOTED “FOR”  ITEMS 1, 2 and 3, and “AGAINST” ITEMS
  4 AND 5.




 


 


 


Date  ______________________________




 Address
  Change? Mark Box  o  Indicate
  changes below:


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 
 


 




 


 


 


 


 




 


 


Signature(s) in Box
  Please sign exactly as your name(s) appears on Proxy. If held in joint
  tenancy, all persons should sign. Trustees, adminis­trators, etc., should
  include title and authority. Corporations should provide full name of
  corporation and title of authorized officer signing the proxy.
 
 
















 







